Okay.
Uh,
I'm going to call to order the Town of
Andover Board of Selectmen regular
meeting for Monday, June 9th, uh, 2025
at 700 p.m. Our first item of order is
to recite the pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America to the republic
for which it stands one nation
with liberty and justice for all. All
right. Thank you very much. Item two, a
public speak. Uh Kathy Palazi.
Thank you. Um, we have nothing this
evening.
Okay, Diane Grineer.
Uh, thank you. Um, just a couple of
things. One is um I'm saddened to hear
about the resignations of Jay Tuttle and
Rick Kaufman. I think they uh served the
town well and it'll be a loss to see
both of those guys leave. Um, also I'd
like to comment again as I have often
about um I'm delighted to to be able to
read the town administrator's report
that's always attached to the um
meetings here. I think uh it provides me
with a plethora of information that uh
um very easy to obtain and um I I love
seeing it. So I thank you for that. And
the third thing is um I'm still sort of
looking to uh see on your agenda at some
point an update on the Bernap clock um
where it is and just an update what what
happened to it. Um it just sort of seems
to have fallen off the the chart here.
So some
some point in time if you could just
update us on that I'd appreciate that.
So thank you very much. That's it. Okay.
Test cross.
Nothing for me. Thank you. Okay. Haley
Praau.
Nothing for me. Thank you. Kathy D.
Roer.
All set. Thank you.
Marcy Miner.
Hi. I know I see you have a lot going on
tonight, so I won't spend any time
commenting. Thanks. Okay.
Um,
Malena.
Hello. Yes, my name's actually Aiden
Ford. I couldn't figure out how to
change the name on the Zoom.
Um,
I just wanted to propose a solicitor
permit from Trinity Solar.
Uh, I do know that in the past you guys
have uh gotten a lot of permits sent to
you from Trinity Solar, but I would like
to make sure you guys uh know that I
would be replacing all the past
representatives that have been in in
Andover. Okay. Thank you, Valerie Berno.
I'm all set. Thank you.
Uh, Janet Stefanitis.
Janet, I'm not sure if your volume's up
or your speaker is working or your
microphone.
Okay, Janet, we'll come back to you if
you can figure that out. Kimberly
Persan, I'm all set right now. Thank
you. Leanne Hutchinson.
Hi, I'm just wondering what the um
direction is going to be for the senior
center um advisory committee board. Um
you know with I had um inquired last
month and it's my understanding that it
was asked to be dissolved two or three
months ago and that that didn't take
place and in the meantime we've had a
change in senior center directors. So,
um I just wanted to, you know, and say
that my interest is ongoing and was
wondering what the role is going to be
um with the interim and with a permanent
replacement. Thank you. All right,
Joanne Heert.
Hi. Yes. I just have a quick comment.
Um, I was surprised to see on the agenda
tonight that there was a resignation
from Jay Tuttle, who's the, you know,
current public works supervisor. I
won't, you know, I know well enough that
we shouldn't talk personnel issues, so
I'm going to keep it very general and
what I hope to see in the future. It's
just, you know, I'm usually a really
good read of people and understand what
they're trying to do, but this one kind
of surprised me just because of the way
um all of you were asked to consider
either a one-year or a two-year
contract, and it went back and forth.
And, you know, every time that he came
on, he spoke of really wanting to stay
in in Andover and needing that 2-year
contract, which I couldn't understand.
and I missed last month's meeting where
I know you all um resolved to change
your mind and give him the 2-year
contract. So, clearly that was used as a
bargaining chip somewhere. Um so, all I
want to do and I I don't want to say
anything bad about anyone. I appreciate
all he did. seems like everyone likes
him as an employee and he did a good
job. But this gives you all a chance to
rethink how you do contracts, what you
want to put in them. Um, you know,
definitely with a public works
supervisor, I hope that you put in some
kind of health clause. That's what I see
in all kinds of towns. That's what
worried me about the 2-year not knowing
he was going to resign was just put in.
You know, I know that usually they have
to pass a physical and things of that
nature, but yeah, just a little shocked.
So, looking forward forward to your
conversation regarding that issue.
Certainly people are allowed to leave
towns. That's not my thing. Nobody did
anything wrong. I think you all did a
great job in in entertaining everything
that he wanted. I feel a little bad on
the other end that I don't think the
same was delivered to you. So, good luck
in the future with that. Thank you,
Jay Tuttle.
Okay, I'll get back to you, Jay. And I
believe the other phone number is Dennis
O'Brien.
Yeah, I'm here. Sorry.
Okay,
Jay, if you Yeah, I'm here, too. Okay,
great. Jay, if you'd like to wait or
would you like to speak and respond?
What would you like to do, Jay? Um, I'll
wait. Okay. I didn't I didn't hear I
just got on, so apologize. I'd be a
little late. No, that's good timing.
Okay.
Did I miss anyone else in public speak?
Okay. A couple of issues. Uh uh Jeff
Murray might may be joining us later. He
has a uh a baseball game to attend which
he should be attending. So that will be
okay. We'll hopefully he can catch up
with us later in the meeting. And uh
Eric had to step away for a personal
issue. I'm not sure if he's back yet. Um
you're back. Okay. All right. So we're
going to move on. Um item three,
additions and uh changes to the agenda.
Do any of the board members um have any
items that they would like to add or
delete?
Yes, I would move to delete 9A
the discussion and possible action on
the draft draft audit report uh and so
on to do with the AF capital fund. We
read information less than 24 hours
ahead and we haven't had time to look at
it and make any serious decisions yet. I
really think we need to hold off on till
next month on that.
So I move that we delete that 9A. Okay.
Any other items?
Carol, nothing.
Scott, nothing.
U I suppose also we might want to add
Trinity Solar, the approval of the new
person for Trinity since that wasn't on
the agenda yet. Yes. Thank you very
much. Do we have an application for
that, Eric?
[Music]
Uh, not in the packet. There was one
last month that you decided not to act
on because we had signed already for
four Trinity Solar employees in the last
year.
Okay. Uh, let's separate those out. We
can add we can add Trinity Solar to uh
9F if it approves.
So, give me one second.
Um, if I if I may, I don't. No, you may
not. You may not put yourself on mute if
you would. Thank you.
And that's not going to work. Oh, it's
not going to work.
Okay.
Okay. So, um, does anyone want to second
the um, deletion of 9A?
I'll second that because did we even get
a copy of the draft audit report that
we're being asked to vote on with this?
Well, we're not being asked to vote on
with it. That that's discussion and
possible action.
Sure. But the possible action is to
estab.
It is not an issue of not wanting to
approve it. It's an it's an issue of
what is the proper procedure according
to our charter and according to state
statute. That's all this is about.
Okay. But again, we didn't get a copy of
the draft audit report. At least I
didn't. We did. You did? Yeah.
Let me find the date for you.
But regardless of that issue, if the
draft audit wasn't received,
I will get it to you. But I'm pretty
sure that um it came to all of us.
Sorry, I have to work around a couple
things.
Eric, when did that go out? And I don't
know if it went out from Mark Brinker or
if it went out from you. I think it went
out from you, Eric. I'm looking.
So on 513, Eric sent that out.
And Eric, did you not send it out to
everybody or did it go out under the
board of finance special meeting? Did
not appear to be seriously hurt. Still,
it could have been a lot worse. And the
image of militariz
Perfect. Thank you.
I don't know off the top of my head what
date I sent it. I thought I sent it to
both uh boards and commissions.
I'll look for it. It actually doesn't
appear to be that. It appears they sent
it to
myself, Mark Brinker, and Joanne Eert.
So, Carol, you are 100% correct. I will
send it to you right now. Thank you.
Yeah.
Aunt May,
Scott Person,
and Jeff Murray.
Okay.
So, back to the issue. The issue is not,
listen, this is not about um
not wanting to approve this. This is
about doing it the correct way. And
I requested an opinion from the town
attorney. I spoke to the board of
finance chairperson and I expressed my
concerns and
we can vote on not having it there. But
it is not a this is not a negative. This
is not an attempt to sit there and not
put the money in the fund. This is an
attempt to sit there and do it the
correct way because it is actually not
even uh a board of selectman issue to
sit there and approve the money going
into that. It is a town meeting because
that is our form of government and that
is the appropriate legislative authority
not the board of finance and not the
board of selectmen.
There's certain ways these things should
be done and we need to start doing these
things correctly because we've had a
habit of not doing things in a correct
manner and working together to do it
according to what the appropriate
procedures that have been outlined by
either state statute or by the town
charter. So, well, I still feel that we
need to postpone the dis discussion on
that because we haven't had time to look
through what we received from Dennis
this morning. So, that's why I put
forward that motion.
I would rather not sit there and well,
we're going to just vote on it. So, uh
all those in favor of deleting item 9A
from the agenda. All those in favor?
Okay. All those opposed.
Okay. 22.
Uh we'll discuss it at the point in
time. So, uh we will sit there and
have a vote on whether we schedule a
town meeting and then we'll sit there
and and postpone it. Can I just ask one
question on that? Sure. Was this already
approved by the board of finance to do
this because this was an audit report
ending fiscal year of No, no, no, Carol.
It's not about the audit report. I'm not
No, no, I understand. But was this
transfer already?
We we'll do it authorized approved or
whatever. Whether it's right or wrong
the procedure that it was done, I'm not
we'll talk we'll talk we'll talk about
it at 9A, Carol, and and just not
deleted. So we'll talk about it at 9A
and it'll just whether we action on it.
Okay, fair enough. Okay. So um the other
item was to add 9F Trinity Solar uh
permit application to the uh the agenda.
Uh further discussion on 9F adding 9F.
All those in favor? I I Okay.
All right. Let's uh move on to item
four, board and commission
presentations. Uh Eric, do we have any?
Uh not that I know of. Okay. Um, we'll
move on to uh item five, which is um
appointments.
Can I just add something to that? All of
the board and commission terms expire
June 30th of this year. There's a notice
in the River East for any elector and
notices were sent out to the board and
commission chairs
um just to pull their members to see who
would like to
continue to serve. So, we're going to be
reappointing all boards and commissions
hopefully at our next month because I
know three of the commissions have sent
in their reply with the members who want
to continue and we haven't received
anything from the public that I'm aware
of yet.
Okay. Um,
I I understand that and I'm in agreement
with you, but on the library board, is
it really
are you? The library board can appoint
their own alternates. We that's not
under us. The library has the board of
directors have the authority to
reappoint.
That authority is given to all boards
and commissions to fill their vacancies,
okay? By their membership, not us.
Okay.
So,
are you sitting there saying that we
don't need to sit there and just approve
the board of the libraries board's
request?
Charter doesn't say that we have to
approve anything. They have the
authority. If they've appointed the
alternates, they're alternates.
Well, they're actually replacing board
members.
Okay. But if they've if they've already
voted them in, then they're in. Okay, I
have no problem because I was just going
to vote to approve. So, um
the one thing that I would like to sit
there and say is um I'd like to thank
Diane Grer for all her years of service
on the library board and uh
you know she's been a great asset to the
community and I really don't have any
problem with any of the members of the
board library board and what they're
requesting. So, um, if it's not
something we need to approve, then we
won't need to take a vote on it.
Um, we're going to move on to item six,
resignations. We received two
resignations in the last month. Jay
Tuttle is, uh, the director of public
works and, um, Ricky Kaufman is a senior
transportation as a driver for senior
transportation. Um
Jay is here with us and Jay I um I did
speak with you after receiving the
resignation and I did tell you that
um I would hope that you would come to
this meeting to sit there and just uh
share with the board the things that we
should be considering as we move forward
uh to replace the director of public
works.
Well, I thank you for reaching out, uh,
Jeff, and I'm assuming everybody got my
my letter.
Do we have an emergency?
Okay, that's not me.
I thought there was a tree down
somewhere, Jay, and you had Oh, well, I
had one the other night. Okay. Um,
anyway, Lake Road. Lake Road. Uh, no,
actually it was Parker Bridge.
So, uh, happened while I was up in New
Hampshire.
So, anyway, um, I
if you
I'd like to share a little bit of time
with you and a little bit of explanation
of where I started and where where how I
came to make this decision.
um and uh allow me a few minutes of your
time.
When I first came on board almost five
years ago, it was made clear to me by
most everyone involved that you wanted
to see our public works modernized and
get up to speed to current standards so
we can better serve the town and its
infrastructure. You wanted a plan and I
was up to the challenge.
By day one, we first started by cleaning
the facility just so we could function
somewhat efficiently so we could do our
day-to-day activities.
Since then, we have made many
incremental improvements to this
facility
every year, bringing it up to the
standards of today and making it a
facility that we can all be proud of.
In the beginning, I couldn't even think
about a plan until I had some time to
evaluate the town's in infrastructure
and what resources we have. There were a
lot of fires to put out, and some still
remain. I sometimes wonder if anyone
remembers what condition the roads were
in when I first started.
This department had run so lean and
unsupported for so many years that it
was going to take quite some time to get
caught up to where things are
manageable. I had a lot of work ahead of
me. With the amount of funding
allocated, we had to rethink the past
and how things were going to be done.
Political individuals started coming to
me in person, calling me on the phone to
express what they would like to see or
have done with the department.
Individuals would tell me, "Don't worry
about funding. We'll get it for you."
Some even went so far as if a certain
someone gives you a hard time, you come
to me. Don't worry about that person.
I'll handle them. I soon discovered how
the political environment was going to
be. I decided then not to let that
influence me because even though there
were differences of opinion, it was okay
because at the time this department was
being supported by both sides of the
aisle and I could deal with that. Both
parties could see that change needed to
happen. I just had to listen,
understand,
find a way to make it work while
retaining a functionality that would
best serve my crew, this department, and
the town's needs as a whole.
First of my goals were to to get the
roads back into shape and shed water so
the surface drainage could again collect
the waterhed as it was designed to go as
it was designed to go in the first
place. to get the drainage swells and
ditches cleared, cleaned and reshaped to
move water away from our roads, get the
travelability back and make them safer
to drive on. I believe we have mostly
accomplished that
at at the same time we had to start
addressing town equipment and how we
were going to continue to modernize the
department. At that time, a multi-year
purchasing plan was already in place and
I was asked to review
I changed it up some mostly thinking
that everything was on point.
I added some items thinking this would
be beneficial to the department making
us more efficient while allowing us to
do more for the town
and it was accepted.
I presented a new plan. I presented the
new plan tweaking the old one
and was accepted by all the boards. But
at the same time, keeping them in mind,
telling everyone, keeping in mind things
can happen such as a breakdown or
wanting to save dollars to purchase now
versus next year. Sometimes change to a
wellthoughtout plan can be in the town's
best interest.
regard to equipment. I believe this
department to be in the best shape it
has been been in for a long time. But
this is where the political climate
first took a turn for me and change my
outlook for the future.
When presentations are made, discussed
and approved by all the boards,
one would think that the
taxpayer is properly informed.
But I found that not as that is not
always the case. Not always is proper
information or supported reasoning
behind a purchase or repair was provided
to the resident so they can make a
well-informed decision.
Partly possibility to a fault of my own.
Sometimes all the hard work that is
required to make a presentation to the
boards, we then find only parts of the
information getting to the taxpayer.
sometimes feels like we are set up to
fail because of per purposeful
misinformation.
What really started to change my view
was when several years ago we were in
the process and planning of buying a new
plow truck a year out because a truck
because truck chassis at the time were
hard to get and any new funding at that
time wouldn't be available till then as
well.
During that time, I was approached by
two board members that are no longer
board members that had heard it might be
possible to get a chassis that year. He
said, 'I don't know, but I'll ask the
dealer.
Turned out that they had build slots
available at 95%
and were 95% sure we could get a truck
ready to go before that winter,
saving some dollars as well
if purchased earlier.
I brought the information back to those
members and they said, "If the dealer
would put put us in on a build slot,
we'll get you the money and it has to be
painted green."
Purchasing a year ahead would have saved
us about $20,000.
So, I talked with the dealer, asked if
they had slots, and they would put us in
the lineup, and they agreed. Mind you, I
never signed for anything. I knew better
than that.
About midepptember of that year, I got a
call that the truck chassis was in. I
thought, great, we're going to get a
truck a little early, save the town some
money.
But not to my surprise when I told the
board members involved, I found out that
they haven't even tried to get the money
approved early or we even willing to
try.
How was I feel about that? I felt like I
was being set up.
I don't know but in the best interest of
myself the department and bring anything
to light I left it alone.
Ever since then I have been cautious on
the cautious side of anything.
I came to public service from private
construction and have over 30 years of
public works from the bottom up. Almost
10 of those years have been in the
supervisory director's role while
retaining the ability to jump back in to
help the crew any way I can. My current
position with you for almost 5 years now
is a 247 365 position.
Is a 247 365
position that has no help. I'm married
to a phone. It's never off. I take it
wherever I go, including vacation. It is
it is the job.
Please don't misunderstand the no help
comment. I have help and it's from my
crew.
They are the ones that I call on when
the need arises. But make no mistake, I
am first point of contact and and
required to answer. I watch the weather.
I decide if my wife and I get to have a
night out. Never mind whether or not I
go to one of my grandchildren's birthday
parties.
I'm the one that calls myself in to
check road conditions. I'm the one that
has to inspect and clear emergency call
before you dig calls. Someone calls in
the middle of the night, I'm the one
that goes out and inspects it. I can
count almost on one hand the amount of
times I've had to have someone be on
call for me in my absolute absence.
by the sudden interest that someone
having or not having a town vehicle
truck.
It's a requirement of the job. The truck
is used for town business. It's 24/7 365
on the job ready to respond.
The truck has never been out on a
personal use. No matter where someone
might have seen it, no one has ever come
to me to ask, but lately that's all I've
heard.
Whether you wanted to discuss, be
informed, or just to ask a question,
agree or disagree, I have never turned
anyone away. But what has increasingly
been an issue for me are the critics. I
know they are there. They always have
been, and that's okay.
I have even made invites, but some never
show. Do they want to understand why or
what we do?
Initially four maybe five months ago now
I initially decide to retire at the end
of June due to the changes in our
pension program. At that time many
people including residents came to me
and asked why you can't retire yet. We
still need you. So I started to rethink.
I still needed to work a couple of years
yet anyway. My contract with contract
with the town was up in July. Uh, so I
had to start negotiating a new term and
I was looking for a two-year contract
with guaranteed increments each year.
It started out being a no to what I
asked for and when there was an almost
verbal agreement but non-committing
while waiting for the approval of an
additional selectment. Then came the
meeting a couple of months ago where I
guess I was illprepared for that
meeting's outcome.
across the board and I left with only
one year proposal to think about it.
Then at last me month's meeting after I
sent the a letter asking to reconsider,
you all agreed to the two-year contract,
but still I wasn't sure how everyone
felt or why they changed their mind.
While all this was happening, I had put
out some resumes to other potential
employers while you were deciding to
grant me a two-year or not. I had a poss
I had possible opportunities that could
move me in another direction
and I looked into that further.
Over the past few months, the
increasingly clear shifting of the
political climate and indecisiveness
with the boards, I have found it no
longer aligning with my values that had
originally drew me to the town of Andal.
The environment and stress levels put
upon me are increasingly unhealthy, have
made it challenging for me to serve you
effectively.
I hope my departure can make room for
new voices that reflect the department's
current direction and whoever fills this
position
will receive full support of board
members for its continued success.
I believe I will be leaving the public
works department town of Andover better
condition than when I arrived. I remain
proud of the work my crew and I have
accomplished together in my short time
here and I trust that the majority of
residents are proud too.
Thank you
Jay. Thank you. Um Jay, just a couple
questions that I wanted to ask it and
really what I was hoping to to sit there
and do is um
when you say it's 247 and and we look
for a replacement for you, um what
should we as a board be considering?
Um
well, you know, somebody that's
committed to the town. um you know some
of the things that
I was hoping that we would you know in
future depending on there really needs
to be a second needs to be a second on
call on on call person you know uh the
person that sits here in this seat needs
to have the ability to have a life
uh
you know I mean it's
sometimes it's hard to juggle life. You
know, we all would like things to do or
do things. And you know, if I can't uh
like this weekend, I was in New
Hampshire watching my granddaughter's uh
soccer games. Um you know, we were out
to dinner and just as we sat out to
dinner, uh I got the phone call from
Talon dispatch uh which
wasn't that big of a deal. Still an
interruption. gotta go outside, get away
from all the noise as best I could. And
you know, I called, you know, I called
the guys in. Um,
you know, when you when you leave for
the weekend or you try to have plans,
it' be nice to leave it with somebody
and and not have to worry about uh
the thinking of others.
Okay. And the the position that you took
you took in private sector. Correct.
And um
as we move forward, you put in your
resignation letter that you would be
happy to assist as we move forward to
help Eric and to have us get
to a new person in that in your seat. Y
anything you can do to help us would be
greatly appreciated. So yeah, I I
I would have no problem helping out, you
know, if I gota
come here Sunday evening or something,
you know, on, you know, keep the keep
the books, so to speak, keep everything
in order, uh,
later in the evening, meet somebody here
to for some training, and I might be
able to duck out a day or two here or
there to, uh, help out as well, so we
can we can discuss how uh you know that
can happen. Okay. And um for the end of
for me to for I greatly appreciate
everything you've done because I've been
here the five years that you've been
here and I was here the five years
before you were here. So, um I
definitely understand the work that you
and Eric have done together to
um at least have a plan for our roads in
town. and and it's not that we as a
community have a tremendous amount of
resources to spend to redo all of our
roads uh from the ground up, but um
truly you guys have done a very good job
maintaining our roads and and and
improving them. So, thank you. Right.
You're welcome. It it all takes time and
and if if the town I feel like what
we've accomplished
uh and the amount of funding that has
been available that you guys have put to
the department uh for your roads and you
know just the up maintenance we're we've
kind of leveled off and it's it works.
It just now we got to start to move
or the town needs to to move to
look to how what's the next step in your
incorporate other things, you know, like
other paving reclamation, you know, now
that you got things where you can drive
around safely, now you start move to
other processes
and see where that fits in. Sometimes
you might have to spend more in one year
and not in another.
Okay. Uh any of the other members have
anything for Jay before we let him go?
Like just thank you again publicly, Jay.
You did a great job for the town. You
really did.
Thank you. Thank you, Jay.
Welcome.
Thanks,
Jeff. You're muted.
Carol, thank you, Carol. Um, Jay, thank
you. Um, welcome, Eric. I don't I didn't
see anything in the packet from from
Ricky. That accurate? He just took
another job in a different town. Okay.
All right. Uh let's move on to uh item
seven, the administrator's report.
Okay. So, I'm not going to go over my
entire report because it's in the
packet. I'm just going to highlight uh a
couple things. Um as per this
discussion,
I um Jay has indicated he would be
willing to continue working for the town
in a limited capacity during the
transition. Um, I would like permission
to negotiate with them
as to how that would look and bring that
back to the board of selectman uh for uh
approval. Um, we are uh immediately
advertising for a new driver to replace
our missing senior transportation
driver. And so, you know, Ricky himself
drove about half the total hours driven
by senior transportation. So, we have a
big hole in our capability uh with Ricky
not on board. So, that's going to be in
the last few times we've tried to hire a
new driver. It's taken on average six to
eight months to find a new driver to
replace. So, it's not going to be a
quick transition.
um but we will start working on it as
soon as uh possible. I also want to
thank Jay um very kindly for all his
years working in public works. Um it's
not always a fun job, that's for sure.
Um he's done a fantastic job managing
his budgets um presenting the
information in a clear way. um you know,
we've occasionally
uh disagreed over
exact specifications and things like
that, but I found he's been a very
flexible and great partner to the town.
So, I really appreciate all his years of
service to the town of Andover. And I
also appreciate how much driving Ricky
has done for the town. He's been a real
asset to the senior transportation
program. So, we're losing two good
people this month. Um,
I
uh something was sent around to the
board of selectmen from Mary Duval
regarding the radio event for ham
operators. Um, I met with Ma Mary after
she sent that to you. Uh, Carol
forwarded me that uh that email from
her. um there are no conflicts with the
field usage and I also discussed with
her the pop possibility
of using the area behind the senior
center. So I gave her both those
possibilities and said the the board of
selectmen would accommodate or the the
town would accommodate her um in what
they need and this is something they've
done in previous years too. So, I would
like permission to instead of filling a
formal application for use, um, just
sign that on behalf of the town and not
bring that back to the board of
selectment given the limited time. I
don't know how other board of selectmen
members feel about this, but I look at
it this as any other use of the
community center. Um, it's a fairly low
impact to the town or to the the field
area. Um,
so regarding zoning changes, uh, it
looks now that Governor Lamont has not
signed the housing omnibus bill and
appears to be backing off on signing it.
Um, you might all have seen a lot in the
paper uh, regarding that the last couple
weeks. It would have made some fairly
drastic changes to zoning law in the
state of Connecticut.
uh that probably would have had some
negative impacts to the town. Other
areas of it would probably be positive
impacts. It was geared more towards
urban areas than it was towards rural
areas. So, it looks like they're going
back for a rethink uh on that. As far as
the state budget goes, the state budget,
I pulled the town by town finance uh
projections and they held us harmless
with ECS funding which was certainly a
worry about that and they did increase
the annual aotment to town aid road for
the first time in about about 20 years.
So that was really uh good. Um, the
other thing I would like to discuss with
the board is the state is moving up the
timeline for the replacement of the
Longill Road branch. Um, that will be
under construction
next April um with a 9-month
construction season. Um, so
that's good. Um, it's also bad. And the
bad part is the fact that we already
have the other uh bridge on Lake Road at
Basola scheduled for the same time. But
I think in this case, the Longill Road
bridge has to take priority because
that's a federal local bridge. Um and we
just don't have the ability to uh pay
the difference
um for two bridge projects at at once.
Um, we could be out for a federal local
bridge project at any one time up to,
you know, say $6 to $800,000
and, you know, almost the same for a
local bridge. And we just don't have
the, you know, $1 to2 million of swing
room unless you're willing to consider
some sort of a grant anticipation bond,
which is expensive. So my suggestion is
that we formally vote to put off for one
year the replacement of the lake road
culver at Basola um so that we can do
the federal local bridge program now. So
that would be something I'd like the
board to consider. Uh I also wanted to
let you know I am taking some vacation
time. I'll be gone June 16th and 17th,
uh July 31st through August 4th, and
August 18th through 27th.
Um other things, I did authorize the
cool program to store uh some of their
stuff temporarily in the community
center. They're having difficulty
finding storage room in the elementary
school and they've assured me that
they're planning on building an
auxiliary storage building, but in the
meantime, they needed to place put some
stuff. So, since we have the room
available in the basement storage room,
I granted that request.
Um, we were extremely fortunate to get a
series of grants that have been
announced. Um, we've got three grants
from the Hartford Foundation for Public
Giving. Uh, the first was a $5,000 grant
for the uh, Andover Beautification
Commission, and I'd like to thank Kathy
D. Roa for submitting that grant on
behalf of the town. Uh, the second one
was the recreation commission received a
$5,000 grant towards the youth
basketball program. And I would like to
thank Megan Lai for submitting that
grant uh on behalf of the town. And the
Veterans Monument Field Committee
received a $10,000 grant uh towards the
playground and the pavilion at the
athletic field. And I'd like to thank
the field committee for submitting that
grant. Um, the other big one that we
found out about as part of the budget
process in the spring, I had asked our
legislative representatives to uh fund a
series of projects in the town of
Andover
um and Senator Ramen representing
Andover as part of the fourth district
uh did get us a legislative grant that
will help pay for the recreation field
improvement. ments and that is a
$250,000
grant each of the next two budget
cycles. So that is basically a half
million towards recreational
improvements um in the town of Andover.
So that is really good news. Um and I
would like to sincerely show my
appreciation to MD uh for his continued
support for Andover.
Um, and lastly, Governor Lamont paid a
visit to town hall uh last Wednesday.
And uh I would like to thank
Selectman uh Murray and Selectman Lee
for being able to meet at short notice
with the governor as well as the town's
attorney, Dennis O'Brien. Um we were
able to talk about some of the issues
that affect Andover directly with the
governor and I thought that was a very
productive meeting. Um, and afterward we
brought the governor to the community
center which was full of seniors playing
bingo. And uh, I think he got a kick out
of uh, meeting with the seniors and the
seniors were really excited to be able
to ask the governor questions directly
and quite surprised that the governor
showed up uh, in Little Wandover Senior
Center. Eric Eric just went I don't want
to interrupt but Scott Prasan was there
as well. So was
Sorry.
Did you forget me?
So, Scott was there meeting with the
governor as well. So, let's let's You're
right. Kudos. I apologize for that,
Scott. Oh, before we before we leave
that part, um uh the governor sat there
and called you the morning that he was
coming, Eric. Right. Correct. I just
want to let you know that uh attorney
O'Brien is friends with the governor and
um he was incredibly impressed by Eric's
performance of discussing the housing
issues that are in front of the state.
And so I think the governor came away
with a very positive impression of the
town of Andover that he may not have had
before his visit. So Eric, thank you
very much for doing such a good job. and
uh Jeff and Scott and Carol for for
attending on such short notice. And Ann,
I I have no problem with you. I was out
of state traveling when Eric called me,
so don't feel I was out of state, too.
So, yeah. And I I just want to tell you
that uh uh and thank you, Attorney
O'Brien, for uh taking my call that
morning and showing up uh that morning.
Uh it was greatly appreciated that you
could um make the governor's visit to
Andover as uh as positive as it it
appeared to have gone. So thank you.
When when we the governor asked us what
he could do for us, we should have
thought to uh ask him to help us with
that Hendy Road light.
He he could have he could have talked to
the DOT and got that pushed along.
I think that's one we're better off
doing a little bit more subtly than
that. Um, I think I sat down and did
have a a meeting uh with Krog's
transportation chief um and who,
you know, the guy that runs DOT traffic
division now used to work for him. So I
I think they have a a personal
relationship and Prague has done a good
job with helping me develop the metrics
to bring to DOT to change their mind on
this issue. Um so I'm not saying we're
going to be able to do it, but I'm
saying we're working pretty hard to do
that right now because I I recognize
that for many people that will be a
significant inconvenience.
um you know, when we funnel all that
traffic onto Hendy, I would expect that
will be problematic for residents. And
to add to Jeff's comments, um I
mentioned the the housing bill, then
Eric actually uh went on to my comments
and you know, it it sounds like Governor
Lamont actually listened and it sounds
like there was some changes done to that
bill and he's proposing some changes
based on our conversations that we had
with the governor in our town hall. So
there's some positive things happening
when he was meeting with us. So I just
want to mention that and I think that's
going to be a a positive thing going
forward for us in in inover. So
other questions for me?
Are you done with your Did they increase
the tire count?
Yeah. How much money?
How much money? Town Aid Road. Town
Road. Uh it's going up from around
183,000 to around $250,000 a year. I
don't have the exact figures, but figure
an extra $60,000 a year we can spend on
road. So that's that's nice. Town a road
has not kept track. And if you look at
what Connecticut allocates to its towns
uh compared to our neighboring states,
it's fairly woeful, but this helps.
Okay.
Um so I think we had two things to
really um actionable items in your
report. One was the movement of the the
solar road culvert from 2026 to 2027
and the other and the other one was
the ham radio. The ham radio. Thank you
Carol Lee. Carol writing down things.
Maybe I should take you up on that,
Carol. Yeah. And the third thing is just
an understanding that if I go back and
work out a contract uh with Jay for, you
know, essentially partial cover while
we're transitioning to a new new person,
um that that's something the the board
of selectmen would consider on on that
one. We'd consider email us any anything
that you want and we should just vote
and sit there and try to do it. Okay.
All right. Um so
I'll make a motion that we uh allow the
town administrator to approve the uh
location of the ham radio.
Eric, what is that called? I mean it's
not a ham. This is the ham radio and you
could call it the annual gathering. I
don't know what the the exact the annual
gathering of the ham radio enthusiasts
and I think they were doing something
for estate purposes but the motion will
be to allow Eric to um
provide
town facility for the use by the ham
radio annual gathering.
Second,
Jeff Murray seconded. Any further
discussion on that?
All those in favor? I I. That's five
nothing on that one. And then u
was what was the other one? Carol,
I wrote on ham radio.
Eric, what was the other one you wanted
us to do? Was it the bridge? Oh, yes.
So, the the other one would be to
authorize me to put off the Lake Road
bridge project for one year. Yeah.
All right. So, I make a motion that we
um
we move uh the
prospective date of the Baza Lake Road
Bazora Culver project from 2025 to 2026.
Actually, from 2026 to 2026 to 2027.
And that's safe. That's going to be safe
to do, Eric. I hope so.
So, so the reason
Yeah.
Well, does that someone want to second
that and we'll have further discussion?
I'll second that. And KMA seconded. Um
so Carol um
what I was understanding was that
because lake uh long hill is a federal
project the concern from the state is
that we don't get funded for the for the
federal portion of the long hill bridge
and so the state is pushing Eric to sit
there and say we're doing this next year
regardless. So the issue for us, Eric,
is it we could do Bizola Road next year,
but it would be done at the same time as
the Long Hill Bridge project, correct?
And so then there would be some there'd
be a cash crunch in doing that, right?
Yeah. Um if we wanted to risk it,
um we could take,
you know, we could basically agree to
utilize extra money from the
unencumbered fund balance to do it. Um
but that's somewhat risky in that that
is essentially our emergency reserve.
So, we could dip into the emergency
reserve if that's what you wanted to do
as an option. Um, but it's it's risky.
So, so our our our gamble is obviously
one is a financial gamble that we
probably would get through. We could
probably do it with the res with the
fund balance that we currently have,
but we'd be putting added pressure on
not only public works, but on
transportation within the community over
two areas as opposed to one. I mean,
because right now we have Bunker Hill
Road closed
to get that bridge done. That bridge
will be completed November, December.
Sure. Okay. borrowing anything any
unusual delays. Okay. And the state is
telling you that they want to start Long
Hill when uh they want to start
construction on Long Hill April 1,
possibly even try to push utility
relocation before then, which is the
same thing we tried to do with Bunker
Hill. Okay. And just before we vote on
this, where are we at with the design
process on Long Hill?
Uh we I received the 70% design files um
about two hours ago. I will forward them
to the board, but I just didn't want to
do it right before the meeting. So I
will f I will send all those to you. You
can view them. I gave them a cursory
review. They're
not anything we didn't expect from the
30% design review. It's the same
structure type. It's the same width. Um,
it's just the actual nuts and bolts
details of the bridge. Okay. So, um,
listen, as a as a board, I think it it's
only prudent that we sit there and we
move the Bola road bridge project back
simply to allow I mean, what is the
gamble that we're taking? That culvert
is not in great condition,
you know? Correct.
But it's the gamble is is we lose the
downstream side of that bridge
um and during a really heavy rain event
um we slump and lose part of the roadway
and the downstream side of the culvert
and we either close it or we neck that
down to one lane which is the same thing
we did with Hutchinson Road when that
culvert failed and that's been necked
down to one lane for almost six years
now.
Um, anybody's anyone else have any other
issues? Any other members? I'm
wondering, do we get any funding at all
for the Basil Road Bridge? Yes, that's
50% state funding, 50% town funding. Um,
it does not look like one of the things
the legislature was debating this year,
which I was kind of trying to get them
to debate, uh, and got council of small
towns and the capital region council of
governments to support was increasing
the percentage of funding uh, for small
bridge replacement to 75% state 25%.
because that is even with 50% match
that's still you know a shade over
$900,000 that comes out of and over
taxpayers
and you said it was going up to 75%
they're look considering they were
considering it but it didn't make it
through the so unless there's a special
legislative agenda I think that's dead
for at least one year potentially two
years so okay I was hoping to see that
go through um but you know
it did not.
So Carol, the issue would be if it does
pass, we'd be pushing our culvert back
to potentially get additional funding
from the state.
Well, I don't
I think even if they make that change
now, I don't know that we would they
would make it retroactive because those
bond funding has already gone through a
bond appropriation.
So, I don't think they're likely to
revisit that. Um, you know, the only
thing it would do is it would make
potentially our next Culbert project
easier to fund because my intention,
just just so everybody knows, we have
basically two pools of money right now.
One was dedicated for the Bunker Hill
Bridge project and one is a bridge and
culvert fund dedicated to smaller
culverts. And you could say just for
numbers purposes they both have around
600 well com between the two of them
there's about a million dollars. So in
the case of the Bunker Hill Bridge we
the contractors send us invoices. We pay
the invoice. As soon as we proved we've
paid the invoice we ask the state to
refund that money. So, we're getting a
100% rebate on that bill, but there's a
time gap. Um, right now we have pay
requisitions
today
um for about $340,000
uh outstanding that we're going to mail
checks for within the next couple of
days. Um we'll probably wait five to six
weeks before we get that money back from
the state. So, that's our swing period.
Um, right now we're okay, but when we
get the prefab bridge structures,
those are expensive and those have to be
paid for before they deliver them.
There's going to be one or two month
increments where our bill is going to be
more like six or $700,000 in a month.
So, we have to make sure we build the
state as fast as we can, get the money
back so we can spend six or $700,000 in
one month and then wait to get
reimbursed for that. So, we have enough
money to do that right now. We would not
if we're doing a state local bridge
program and a federal local bridge
program because some of that money is
going to be the town's match for the
state local bridge program. you know,
there we're going to spend $1.8 million,
but we're only going to get $900,000 of
that back. So, that's going to eat into
that fund as we go along. So, this way
is definitely safer. Um, and then at the
end of both of those, at the end of if
we do Bunker Hill first and then we do
the Culver project, at the end of that
period, the money that we have set aside
for the large bridge projects, which
will be close to a half a million
dollars, will then be freed up to start
the financing for the next culvert.
Because remember, we've got at least
four failing culverts we have to address
and they're all going to be, you know,
between, you know, 1.2 and 1.8 million
or $2 million each. So, we're going to
have a series of these we have to do as
fast as we can with whatever money we
have. So, that's kind of how I'm trying
to schedule everything out. Um, but it
also requires us to get the bridges in
the culverts qualified into the the
state local bridge program. Um, and
right now there's no guarantee of that
because only about 30% of the bridges
that, you know, get uh apply for the
grant funding get it. So, it's kind of
a,
you know,
did that answer your question? Sorry,
that was kind of long-winded.
It was, it was, it was the right
information for us to understand. I
mean, and just so the board understands,
I mean, we would probably have the
ability to fund both of them. In my
head, for the amount of money we have
available,
it just would be risky. It would be a
gamble that's not worth taking. So, we
may as well push the bridge off and hope
that the Lake Road Bazula culvert
stands up.
It's not a guarantee that it will, but
that's probably the best bet. And just
so everybody in town understands,
Bunker Hill is going to cost the town
nothing.
Correct. Long Hill is going to cost the
town nothing. Correct. And so in
a 10-year window, we have every
crossing of the Hop River
completed with a new bridge within the
last 10 years.
Uh well, we'll have three of the four
crossings within 10 years.
Hendy Road crossing. That's an older
That's a mid80s. Uh
87, I think. Do you remember what year
that failed, Carol?
I thought that was earlier than that.
Earlier than that, is it? Okay.
82 or three somewhere in there, I think.
Oh, the failing of Hendy, the Hindi road
crossing. Well, the rebuilding of it was
around the early 80s, I think.
Okay. So, what are the four crossings?
Because I'm missing one because I know
we did one within the last uh Times
Farm. Times Farms. So, Hendy Road, Long
Hill Road, and Bunker Hill Road. And
times farm was done.
Times farm was completed
in 17. 17. Um kind of. All right. So
that's the one I was thinking of because
I remember that that
we did that one. So we did that one then
Bunker Hill and now we'll end up with
Long Hill done in 2026.
Correct. As two no cost to the town.
Correct. Okay.
All right. So, um there's a motion on
the floor regarding the movement of the
Lake Road, Basula Road Culver to 2027.
Any further discussion?
All those in favor? I I
Okay, so that was also five nothing.
Eric,
thank you. Okay. Is there anything else
that we should deal with related to your
report? Anybody else have any questions
for Eric?
Okay. 8A, community signage discussion.
Um, I still have to sit there and deal
with uh Elaine and I will promise that I
will get that done before our July
meeting. I was going to say if you
really too busy, I'll take it on. No,
I'll deal with Elaine. I'll call her. I
told her about that at when I saw her at
the the town meeting. And I told her I
needed to get with her. I just had not
done it.
Uh 8B discussion of blight and level of
involvement. We have documentation in
our packet
from the blight enforcement officer.
Anybody have any questions regarding
Wayne's report? If Wayne could add the
number of the street
in the report, then we would know, you
know, all he has is a street. No number.
Anybody have any questions related to
that for Eric or Well, my thought is I
look at that and there's a lot of things
listed and 90% of them seem to be
settled. So why do we still see them all
on the list? Shouldn't it be just the
most current things that are being
worked on, haven't been settled yet,
etc. or just were settled?
I actually think this list was the
inspections that he's done in the month
of May. I don't think we can get the
list from the prior ones that he kept
everything on there, but to be really
honest mostly because I got tired of
looking at the things that were
months and months and months. I didn't
look at this month. I was so correct.
But the the
request from the board members that that
were
into the blight issue that we've had
that that was uh that was a request of
board members to keep that list going
ongoing so that we could sit there and
see if things had been moved or not
moved. But in this month what he did was
he provided and I think this is Wayne's
first one. Is that not true? It is.
Correct. Okay. Wayne sat there and gave
us the inspections that he did um so
that we could understand what he was
seeing when he was out there trying to
do blight enforcement. Um I like seeing
all the names and numbers and
everything. All that big list. The board
of selectment did that. I I think it's a
celebration
to me. We get to see all the light
enforcement that we've achieved.
I agree with Scott. I think it's I think
it's good to see this.
I mean,
there is a lot of things that Yeah. that
we've that have been attempted to get
done and blight enforcement has now
become a little bit of a more of a
priority and I think Eric and the blight
enforcement agent has done a good job
even in the previous blight enforcement
officer.
So, um, yes. So, I had no problem with
Wayne's report. It was, it was
interesting to me. So, just add some
numbers. All right. 8C assessor's
analysis on current valuations.
Uh, I see the assessor provided us
information. Uh, we don't have the state
report that was here. Um, a couple
questions for me, Eric, and and two
things is, um,
there are some land valuations that are
out here, specifically some land
valuations from Gilead and Cone Road.
Um,
and I would just like an answer on this
and that, you know, that property was
sold for it appears sold for in 2024 for
somewhere in the range of 1 point I
think it was $1.5 million if if I'm not
wrong. Um, three different parcels on
that property.
Uh, so you're asking why the valuation
is so low. The answer to that is it's in
it's all that land is in PA490.
So it's either in forestry or a
agricultural land. I do understand that.
And but normally PA490 properties come
out of PA490 in first year and was it
and and then it and it doesn't appear to
be on the PA490 list that John puts out
every year. So I am sure there's a
reason and I'd like to understand that.
Um, but since that property had
transferred among family members for a
period of time, I'd like to understand
when it got outside of the family
members. Was the PA490
reissued? And Carol, since you were in
the town clerk's office, do you
remember? I checked, Jeff. I checked.
Was it done? It is back in 490 when
within a couple months of when it was
purchased. Okay.
Okay. And is that property, just from my
understanding, is that property still
part of the state program, Scott? Yeah.
It is part of the state program. Okay.
So, it can never be developed. No. Okay.
All right. Just because I couldn't see
it there. Thank you, Scott, for finding
that information out for me. And then,
Eric, just on the assessors, two other
things on the assessor. Um
uh one is the assessor
uh sponsored a bill
to sit there and eliminate uh board of
assessment appeals.
And um
I don't know if that has passed if it
got passed but um
it's interesting to me that that that
occurred because it's always difficult
for me to understand how to evaluate the
assessor and and I would like Eric for
you to sit there and ask him because I
was hoping he'd be on here is like how
do we evaluate the job that the assessor
is doing for the community because
there's no specific you I know he comes
up with these percentages and that we're
supposed to get to these percentages. I
just don't understand how to evaluate
the performance of the assessor's office
and the assessor and it would be helpful
if there's some way that we as a board
could understand that and understand how
it could be done. Um so he's not here to
explain it to us. Uh
but the other part too is you should
have included the state report that was
part of what he is answering his
questions to. That's in the last packet.
So Oh, but it was just in the last
packet. Oh, I understand. In this packet
also. Yeah, you should have put that
two-page report in this packet also.
Because all of the things he's talking
about here, we've got to reference back
to the other side of it. So, uh, I'll
sit there and go over this in my my my
point about that land, the agricultural
land up there is if it's sold for even a
million dollars, it it's only if it's
assessed for 250 or something, how could
its value is actually what it was sold
for? Not even though it's in 490, there
still is a high per acre price on
agricultural land and it's somewhere
around 6 or 7 $8,000 cuz I know a lot of
people that buy agricultural land and
that's what they're paying for it. So I
can't believe that that the assessment
can be so low if that's what its real
value is.
But I don't think
I mean that's the whole point of the
PA490
program. It is just like every other tax
credit and every other rebate to
veterans and this group and that group
and you know why the biggest
manufacturer in the town of Andover pays
almost no personal property tax because
all his machinery is exempt. Those are
all state
um you know things that the state has
imposed.
Scott, it's it's a it's a you know, I've
always
I always thought that when someone sells
a property within the town, that's the
pre that's the price that has been
established and set. and you're trying
to get to a threshold at all properties
that they
are reasonably assessed because the
state has this theory that you got to
come to a 70% threshold. But what
happens in in inover
is certain properties are assessed at a
much higher than 70% rate and and other
properties are assessed at a much lower
than 70% rate. So, you're trying to be
fair and get to a flat 70% across the
board. And I've had this conversation
with Eric where it's all about uh all
boats float equally. You can't have a
certain area that is at 100% and then a
certain area that is lower than 70%. And
it's just not fair. And and even with
the board of assessment appeals, it's
extremely difficult
to get to the root problem with in my
head with related to all of this, which
is all of the properties need to be
evaluated together. And the assessor
will tell you he does that and and
that's okay. But some of the data
doesn't always shake out that way
though. Well, what you will see, I think
just looking at other towns that have
gone through V Reval in the last year
that uh the housing market for high-end
homes has cooled off and the lower-end
starter homes are going for a lot more
money. Their real estate value has
increased a lot comparatively. So I
suspect in the next reval cycle uh the
people with starter homes you know are
going to see a large increase in their
uh their evaluation their rebal. That
seems to be the trend that other towns
are seeing. Um and that's been a cycle
if you look back at 20 years of data
that's been a cycle. Um,
you know, when the housing market is
cooling off, you start to see the
starter homes, you know, raise in value
much more disproportionately. And when
the housing market is really on fire,
like it has been for a while, the
expensive homes go up the most in
valuation.
So, this doesn't seem to be an abnormal
trend to me uh by any means. Okay.
All right. Um we'll move on to 8D. A
traffic around the lake. Are there any
issues related to the traffic around the
lake that we want to talk about?
Uh no. Ann asked that that stay on as a
discussion point on the agenda. So, we
left it on there. I don't have anything
else to say other than um I'm hoping to
get the resident state trooper out on a
bicycle patrolling in that area um and
also step up more
you know more traffic enforcement
specifically in the lake area uh
especially during summer.
Okay. Um let's move on to 8E the Bunker
Hill Bridge update.
Uh so Bunker Hill Bridge update, I've
given you most of it. They're around 23%
uh according to the construction
estimator around 23% complete. Um what
that means is they've uh put in the
water dams to channelize the river.
They've removed all three of the old
culverts on the side facing Route Six.
They've replaced the bottom, dug the
bottom out and replaced it with
streamlike material. Um, and they're
working on doing the other side the same
way. And they've they've done the first
what's called a micro pile. And a micro
pile is basically just a foundation pile
that goes down through about 45 ft of
sand and then a certain depth into
bedrock. Um, and what they have to do is
they have to do a test pile first, which
they've done and they've grouted it and
now they wait uh in in a couple more
days. It will be set up enough they
essentially use another machine and try
to pull it out. Um, and based on the
stress, uh, you know, the bending stress
of doing that, they make the final depth
for the other pilings. Um, and they
should start drilling for the other
micro pilings within a day or so on the
Route Six side of the bridge. Um, and
the goal is to basically move them
directly from that side to the next side
and remobilize to the other side of the
river as soon as they're done. Um
hopefully within the next two weeks
we'll be pretty much done with the micro
piles and on to pouring the actual
footings for the bridge.
Okay, any other questions for Eric on
Bunker Hill Bridge.
All right, 8F uh OSHA update.
So we did finally got our official uh
OSHA uh citation. I believe I passed
that on to all the board members. Uh the
long and the short of it, it was our
total initial fine was about $4,000,
which was actually very low. Um I was
pleased to see um compared to what many
of our other surrounding towns have
experienced.
Um we've addressed basically all of
their concerns at this point. We are
planning on setting up a meeting with
the director of Konosha with the
intention to further negotiate the fines
down um and explain you know what we've
done to mitigate and you know why we
should uh get out of a significant
portion of those fines. So hopefully in
the next month or so I'll have the the
final report for you on that. All right.
8G the ROV request.
Didn't we vote on this last month?
Uh,
yes we did. Last month we took care of
that.
I forgot what the ROV request was.
Moving the bounce house and the popcorn
machine. Okay.
All right. So, we can take that off. Uh,
didn't we vote on 8H water fountain?
Yes, we did. Yeah, I just left it so
that I would have an update. Um, we had
the water company scheduled to come out
and do the testing, but somebody smacked
the pipe um coming out of the ground
today at some point. Um, so the main
valves are shut off and uh we have the
plumber in to evaluate and figure out
what has to fix it. So, that got deleted
probably, you know, a week um because I
don't know when I can get them back out
to test, but that is in the works. Okay.
Uh 8 I discuss and act upon new
committee members for number one, the
community and senior center hiring
committee. Um
just as a question before that, um
uh Eric, do you have a job description
that has been prepared for this? Is
there a d I should ask it in a different
way. Is there a job description that's
out there that is available for the
members of the board?
Even not that I know of even from other
members of the board.
So I think we have the old job
description um that we can go on and
we have to advertise for it. So we I
think we can still act and appoint
someone to be on this committee and then
just
work on the job description. But we also
if you have if you have the basic job
description, Carol, can you share it
with all the members?
I can, but I don't know how to do it
while I'm on this. So I no, not right
now. after the meeting. Okay, tomorrow
would be perfect if you could. So, are
we going to make a motion to nominate?
Yeah, this was just before we got into
it because I know the job description is
important to this whole process. So,
even if we hire somebody, we would want
to share it with who we put on the
hiring committee. And so, before we do
this, let's let's talk about um the
makeup of the hiring committee. Um
um
so for the rep commission and Marie
Dagel um said she'll serve back again.
Okay. So so the two members of our board
were myself and you Carol and Marie. We
need one person from the public and we
need uh one person from um senior
center. You said community center town.
So Eric, do you have someone that you
can refer us to for that position?
Well, I think if you look at everybody
of the people that volunteered for the
hiring committee, certainly Joe King,
Julie Havl, and Louise Goodwin are all
seniors. No, no, no. I I wasn't talking
about those individuals. I was talking
about um uh a senior center director
from another town.
if you could sit there and work with us
to find that that other member that
would be a we would want on there,
someone that actually serves in a
position. So, in the past, the previous
time we had the individual from
Coventry, maybe she's available, maybe
she's not. If we could sit there and
work that out and you could sit there
and come back to us and email us on a
potential options, that would be great.
And now we can go through the other
members. So,
there's four members, and I'm assuming
everybody on the board is familiar with
all four members. Yes. Right. Um,
they're all
good individuals. I I I wouldn't have a
problem with any of them. Um,
so right now we have Carol, we have Ann
Marie, we have Jeff, we have to add
someone that of these four and then we
have another individual for
a person working in that environment. Is
that agreeable to everybody? Yes, that's
what we decided on last month. Okay.
So,
um,
who would somebody like to nominate from
those four individuals? I'd like to
nominate Marcy Miner.
I'll second it. Okay.
Um, further discussion on Marcy.
Did we lose Scott?
Yeah, I think we did.
We'll have to get Scott back. Um
I know we lost Dennis. Um
um Dennis texted me that he got kicked
out. He's not back yet, is he?
I don't think so. No, I don't see him.
Uh can you check Eric on if people are
waiting or if we got any problems?
I don't have anybody that I can see in
the waiting room, so I don't know what
the issue would be. Okay.
Is that phone number? There's Dennis.
There you go.
Okay. Um,
let's just text Scott. I just text him.
You texted Scott? Yes. I just asked if
you lost internet or what happened.
Second.
Okay, Scott's now in the waiting room,
so I will admit him.
If you're talking to us, Jeff, you're
muted.
All right, Scott, you could hear us,
right? Good. Now, yeah. Okay. So, Scott,
were you here? Uh, Carol nominated Marcy
Miner for the position and she w Marcy
was seconded by Anne Cre for the hiring
committee.
I did not hear that. Okay. So that that
is where we're at. So we're waiting for
you to get back. Um
any dis any discussion related to Marcy?
Okay. All those in favor of Marcy Miner
for the hiring committee. I I
Jeff, did I miss your vote?
Jeff, I'm an I. Okay. So that was 5
nothing.
Okay.
So uh
8 I2
website review committee. Um
do we have a member from the board of
selectmen that would like to be on that?
Okay. don't know much about websites. I
could just give comments. Yeah. Um since
no one wants to uh do that, I I will sit
there and be on that. I will volunteer
to be on that. If anyone has a problem
with that
and personally, I think you should we
should
accept all three individuals on that
board. Good idea.
Candidates are excellent. I'll make a
motion that we
uh appoint to the website review
committee Jay Camus, Megan Lai, and
Scott Soette. I'll second.
All right. All those in favor? I I I I.
That is also five nothing.
Um and then discussion and act upon new
committee members for Andover's finest.
We will push that off for another month.
Anybody
have a problem with that?
Okay. Can I just ask a question on that?
We didn't have committee the last time,
right? We just advertised to the public
and we asked the public to submit
their
people who they felt should be
recognized. And that's correct. I'm just
This has just been going on. It's been
going on for two years. This started in
2023. I looked that up. Well, we
actually put people on the We actually
have three people. We just had since
then. I I know. But I'm just saying
rather than keep Well, the reason the
reason that happened was we ran out of
money with to do the paving the patio
there. So,
that's why this is on hold.
Well, we need to move it off hold. I'm
with Carol. We need to do something
besides a paving a patio, but uh maybe
make a plaque and post people's names on
that in the community center somewhere
because we do have the criteria still
out there on the website and
I just think we should encourage people
to put the names forward and then we
start voting on this monthly because
it's been two years. So, and I
understand if you know the finances were
an issue. I know the bricks
could get costly. Um, it wasn't really
that bad though when we were selling the
bricks for down doing the Veterans
Monument Park. So,
uh, I think Carol, you're right. We
should take applications and nominations
all the time to be really honest. We
don't have to vote every month to
appoint or to put somebody on Andover's
finest, but we should just continue to
take nominations. I think we are doing
it every six months.
Yeah, six months, every quarter.
Something like that would work. Six
months. Okay. So, how do we uh let's sit
there and uh we'll work with the website
review committee to get more nominations
and applications to sit there and be put
forth. There was some paperwork that had
to be filled out also.
I think. Okay. Uh it's it's like a Hall
of Fame. We don't want to sit there and
have too many people. I mean, you don't
want to put like Jeff Magguire in it
every other quarter. It's not going to
work. Right. Right. There be every other
brick would be Jeff Maguire.
That's not how it's going to work. Okay.
All right. Uh let's move on to nine. A
new business discuss upon the following.
uh a uh discussion and possible action
on the draft audit report for the period
ending June 30th, 2024 regarding the
transfer of unexpended board of
education appropriations to the AS
capital fund. So just so everybody
understands the reason that
the draft audit report came out, there
is that money there. Um,
the way that that was done was the board
of finance voted to sit there and move
the unexpended
board of education money less the 2%
lapsing fund
into the AES capital fund.
And personally, I don't really I I I
know we have an issue with the bathroom
there, but the way that it's done
uh does not agree with me from how it
got accomplished. So, just so you can
understand, the
money was from
the 2023
to 2024 fiscal year. Correct. Correct.
and it went all the way to the end and
the board of education had gone to the
board of finance and the board of
finance voted and it's now going back
into the audit. So, it never reached the
legislative group within the town which
is
the town meeting. So, nowhere did the
town meeting vote on
approval of moving that money there.
So,
the reality to me is that the town
meeting should have been voted, it
should have been voted on at the town
meeting when we had all of this budget
work that we just did and it didn't get
done there. And so, shame on us for not
getting that done in advance. I I spoke
to Mark Brinker about that o over the
weekend and and asked him because I had
missed one of the town meetings and uh I
had asked him if it had been voted on
and he said it had not been voted on.
And to me,
the
board of finance does not have that
legislative authority to do that
unilaterally
and the board of fin the board of
selectment does not even have the
authority unilaterally to move that
money.
Uh the only group and the only the only
thing in our town in our town charter
and Carol you can comment on this is the
town meeting that has the authority to
approve the movement of those funds from
unexpended because the reality in my
head is the way it should have went from
an accounting perspective is it should
have went back into the general fund and
within this budget cycle that money
should have been moved to the AES
capital fund and then what would have
happened is we would have taken it out
of the general fund without taxing the
taxpayers and then the taxpayers could
have voted on that. That's how in my
head it should have happened but it
didn't.
Um, but I do believe that because it's
such a large amount of money and because
we need to start doing things correctly,
that needs to go in front of a town
meeting and it needs to go in front of a
town meeting quickly. So, I asked the
town attorney for an opinion on that uh
last week. He provided it. I provided it
for you. I realize you haven't had time
to research
and go over all of that. Um,
but I just think from a common sense
perspective, you should be able to
understand what we're dealing with. Um,
and that's why I wanted to bring it up
for discussion purposes.
So, this is a long letter or or whatever
the legal opinion is. very long and we
haven't had time to to look at it to
read it because we just got it this
morning. Um, it's it's five pages. Yeah.
And
getting through five pages of legal
stuff is not easy. We're not lawyers,
but we do want to figure out what's
going on before we vote on anything,
even to run a PL town meeting.
Okay, Carol, can I just ask so the board
of finance already approved this
transfer of funds from one budget line
to no not a budget line, not a budget
line to another budget line went excess
funds at the end of the year to transfer
into the capital account. Correct. So
they already voted to do this. Correct.
Mhm.
And and this is the 2024
audit that we just received a draft copy
of a couple of weeks ago.
It had been in the Yes. the board of
finance and and Eric had had that from
Mahoney and Sable and the board of
finance was looking to schedule a
meeting with the auditor to approve the
audit and to sit there and set the mill
rate
like one of the legislative authorities
that the board of finance has is to set
the mill rate. So they were actually
doing that. Can I ask was that a finding
in the audit? No, no, no, no. The
auditor The auditor put it in the fund
and the auditor put it in the fund. So
it wasn't noted as a finding by our
auditor. No, because because the auditor
believe the auditor Carol and this goes
for you. The auditor is not looking at
who has legislative authority to approve
it. It was done in the board of finance
meeting to approve it and he just made
the accounting transaction on it.
So, this would be something good for
you, Carol, to sit there and look
through the charter and to make sure
that and to make sure that I'm missing
to not make sure that I'm not missing
something related to how the charter
works. Now, Dennis went through and did
this the state statutes and everything
related to the board of finance and what
the true
authority is related to the board of
finance. So the true authority for the
board of finance is really to set an
upper threshold in my head. It's always
been this to set an upper threshold for
a budget amount to be spent and then it
goes to the legislative body which is
the town meeting. And the town meeting
cannot increase the spending amount
above what the board of finance has set
but they can decrease it. And so you you
have these these issues of who has who
has legislative authority over certain
things. So with the board of selectmen,
it's really what's out there with uh
ordinances and how our charter reads.
And with the board of finance, it's it's
what our charter read and what state
statute says. So in my head, what I'm
after, what I'm totally after is I
cannot see us continuing. I can't see a
future board of selectmen having to
continue to go through processes like we
were going through and have these types
of transactions because it's going to
happen again. And um it's got to be done
correctly. So that's my only issue. I I
was I was talking about this at the last
town meeting. It's I I know we didn't
vote on it. I know the board of
selectman didn't vote on it. And to be
really honest, even if the board of
selectment voted on, it wouldn't have
been right anyway. It had to be in front
of the town meeting.
And the problem that mentally
I'm dealing with and Eric, you um
Mahoney and Sable wants to get the audit
finalized, right? Because they have to
get it to the state. They've already
submitted it to the state. They've
submitted to the state. All they are
doing is having a meeting, scheduling a
meeting with the board of finance to
discuss the audit and their audit
findings, which is not to say they
couldn't issue a correction
um if one was needed, but as far as
Mahoney Sable's concerned, the audit is
filed.
Well, the problem that I see is if it
doesn't get done and we don't have a
town meeting and we go back through and
we go to the auditor and he reads the
opinion of the attorney and understands
what the attorney is saying and what I
believe is accurate, then that money
really needed to go to the general fund.
So, I would recommend that we have a
town meeting to get it approved.
So
my question in the charter under 806
right D
it says that
um has the town administrator through
the board of selectment may request
within the last three months.
But then it says this section shall not
affect the local board of education
shall have the power to make its own
transfers provided that such transfers
are reported to the board of finance.
So but you're saying the board of
finance
approved that well transfer or whatever
you would like to call that. Yeah. Um,
Dennis, he's waving his hand. Dennis,
you're gonna explain something to me.
He doesn't want to let me talk, but uh I
know he doesn't. No, it's not that I
don't like when Dennis talks because I
listen to Dennis. It's Dennis Brett, be
brief. We were hoping to get out of here
at 9ine. So, yeah, I I wanted to get
out, too.
that that section she's talking about is
it applies to uh the board of education
handling its budget during the during
the year during the fiscal year, not at
the end of the fiscal year when it
doesn't spend money. That money
automatically goes into the into the
town fund. It's a it's town money. It's
not becomes town money. It's not board
of ed money. And uh that money is um you
know and the board of finance has no
authority whatsoever to make a to take
action on that money. It's it there's no
good solution. There's no good process.
Going to a town meeting is not ideal. I
recommend in my opinion that an
ordinance be passed. Giving the power to
the board of selectmen which is the the
board of selectman is the is the top
agency on the town side. No question.
Board of Finance is not The Board of
Finance has special responsibilities,
but they don't include handling uh you
know, taking town money and giving it
back to putting it in a in a uh uh a
special fund. They can recommend it.
They're they're they're all about
recommending. If you look through the
statutes, the word recommend appears
everywhere. They're not f they don't
have the final say on very much. One
thing to have the final say on, as Jeff
said, is to set a ceiling on the budget
when the budget is acted on by the by
the town, including the town meeting.
And then, you know, and then when it
goes to referendum, they they set the
ceiling on the budget. They're there to
make sure the town can afford the
budget. That's what they do. And they do
it well.
But they're not there to transfer money
from the Carol down to the to any a uh
uh special fund. That's not by
themselves. Okay. Carol, your issue your
issue on those that charter section is
transfer between expenditure funds. We
cannot no one within the town can tell
the board of education how to tr they
can transfer their money between any
expenditure line item.
So an expenditure line item. But what
we're dealing with here is the board of
education was under budget
by a certain amount of money for the
fiscal year ending in 2024.
And what happened to that money is
they took the 2% non-lapsing money which
they have the authority by state statute
to move the 2% into a a non-lapsing
account. No one can do anything about
that. But the remaining money
the remaining money was voted on to was
voted to move to the AES capital fund.
So that is not a transfer that the board
of finance or the board of education can
do. The only entity that can approve
that is really the town meeting.
Okay.
it. The only thing that's throwing me is
that first sentence in
806 C that says when an agency excluding
the local board of ed shall desire to
transfer funds within its appropriation
from funds set apart for one purpose to
another. Such agency shall file a
request with the town administrator.
Right? So it says excluding right the
local board of education appropriation
from the funds set apart for one purpose
to another.
And then within the last three months is
when this can be done. So all I'm saying
is I thought our charter gave more
authority to our board of finance
and that's all I'm saying. If the board
of finance
voted
to do that,
should we really be
undoing what they did? And I know with
the statutes and the authorities and
that that they give to the board of
finance, but I also know that our
charter can give more authority
to different boards and commissions. And
I think that our charter did give the
board of finance
more authority, separate authority
from the authority of the board of
select.
That's my only question. And it they've
already done it. It's in the audit.
I don't know that I I'm just asking. And
again, like Ann said, this packet,
everything came out late on Thursday.
Well, about 11:30 Thursday morning, so
we really don't have time to research
anything. And then Dennis's opinion you
sent to us this morning at 9:30.
I didn't even see it in the email till
12:30
because the office was a little bit
crazy. Um,
that's my only issue is some of the
questions.
Listen, you guys, you guys can research
this. We can have a a quick meeting. I
am just telling you that in my I mean,
I've never I've never I mean, listen,
think of it this way, Carol. I'll just
use your common sense thing. Imagine if
the board of selectmen moved money into
a fund and sat there and said, "Okay,
we're under budget. we're going to move
it into this fund in any significant
manner like this and what would occur.
So I'm just I I am I am looking at this
in a very simple way. We have to
understand what is right and what is
wrong moving forward. And you can have
you can have time to sit there and do
this. But I would tell you it would be
appropriate for us to do this and and
make the make have a town meeting
because it is the legislative body
within the town not the board of
selectmen and vote on this.
So because in the future I don't really
want to sit there and see this
continuously happening that the
because what's going on is the board of
finance
well the board of the board of education
is going to the board of finance and
trying to have the board of finance make
a legislative decision for the community
that this is the best use of the funds
without balancing that out amongst every
organiz organization within the town and
I can't I don't believe we should allow
that to happen in the future. I think
there has to be a balance and you know
because next year let's sit there and
say we don't know I mean we haven't
gotten any information from the board of
education if they're going to be under
budget or overbudget. Let's say they're
under budget because they'll probably be
under budget and we don't know but let's
let's look at it this way. What the
board of education will do is go to the
board of finance and have the board of
finance vote on it. And if we sit there
and allow it to happen this year, it'll
happen next year and it'll continue to
happen every other year that we move
forward. So remember, the board of
education isn't like patting people's
salaries or doing crazy things with the
money. They're only putting it into
their capital fund so they can fix
things like the building, the plumbing,
having a a elevator that works so the
handicap kids can get up and down.
That's that is federally required. You
know, it's not like they're wasting
money. They're only making use of it.
I I agree with you, Ann. But I what what
is occurring is those dollars the the
underbudget amount that it is occurring
sits there and comes back and you have
to evaluate it within the total needs of
the town. Now I'm not sitting there
saying I agree that I would put that
money in that fund.
But I am sitting there and I am telling
everyone I'm sitting there in my head
going I've read the stuff and I've
looked at the stuff. The ultimate board
to make that decision is the town
meeting. And the town meeting never had
the opportunity to vote a yes or no on
that issue because Are you saying that
every year they have to have a town
meeting in order to move this money or
is to be to be really honest and if if
they allowed it to go in the right way,
the money just would have went back into
the general fund and there would have
been nothing on the town meeting. There
would be no vote. there would be no
requirement because the the board of
education was under budget. The money
should have gone to the general fund and
then a decision could have been made and
voted on at town meeting if we wanted to
fund uh $500,000 to the Andover AS
capital fund. It would have been voted
on by the town meeting and truly it
should have ended up going to the budget
referendum. This did not get to the
budget referendum ever in any manner. So
I'm looking at this simply because we
need to be we need to do a better job as
a board of selectmen and how this whole
thing works together and it's got to be
done correctly
and reality is reality is we're a town
town meeting form of government.
So that is correct. We haven't always
gone to town meeting. Look at the
community center. It was built a million
dollars. It never went to a town meeting
or referendum for a vote. Uh, it
actually did get on our budget. It did
get on our budget referendum that year.
We actually talked about it in great
detail as to what was going on at that
meeting.
So, the rules the rules they never voted
on it. Now the rules for that ARPA money
were for the board of selectment or the
governing body of the town to make the
right decision on where that money went.
Governing body. Now you're saying the
governing body is it's the board of
selectment was the board of selectment.
Okay. So then why did we have to bring
this thing with the board of ed to a
town meeting? in the charter that says
that those under expenditures are
supposed to go back to the general fund
and we can either vote on it or it would
go back to the general fund and I would
rather vote on it. I'm trying to but I
am telling I got it to
go to the motion the motion at the town
meeting would be to move the money to
the Andover AES capital fund.
Well, I don't see
I think the board of finance has already
made a decision with it. So I feel
they're the ones that deal with the
finance more than we do.
They have certain limitations as to what
they're supposed to do. They're supposed
to evaluate
again they're supposed to set an upper
limit as to what the organizations can
spend. And each year they should
evaluate what we spend and how we spend
it to determine if our amount is is
appropriate for the taxpayers of the
town to spend. They should be evaluating
expenditures of the board of education.
They should be evaluating expenditures
of the town and they should set the
upper limit of what can and can't be
afforded by the taxpayers of the town.
They should not be making a decision to
sit there and put money into a fund that
is a capital fund.
It's just not what they should be doing.
All that I'm saying is if it was already
done
by the board of finance,
the draft audit
is completed. I understand if it was
done incorrectly, then it does need to
be corrected for the future.
But should we be undoing
what the board of finance did, what's
already audited?
I I didn't even, to be honest with you,
read get a chance to read the board of
finance minutes when this transfer took
place. I didn't have time to do any of
the research on that as to
how it was done or anything else. And
not that I'm arguing, obviously, you
know, Dennis is our town attorney, but I
didn't even really get a chance to look
at that and go back and forth. How about
we push this off to next week? But my
point is, we really do need to vote on
it before the end of the month.
And can I ask why it's the end of this
month that we have to now we're going to
cross into another fiscal year if we let
it go past January or June 30th.
But it was 2020. It was fiscal year
ending June 3024.
Correct. Which is already just being
issued.
Jeff, wasn't there another vote taken in
March of this year to transfer more
money into that fund by the board of
finance? So that would that happened
during this fiscal year?
Well, the approval of that money to move
into that fund was done to try to get
through the audit and get approval for
the audit.
Okay. Well,
it was 360 grand. Yeah. I'm not saying
that I'm opposed to it either. I'm I'm
just I'm just telling Listen, I am not I
I I need everybody to understand I'm not
opposed to this. And so again, just so
you understand, I am not opposed to the
money going there. Listen, the board of
the board of selectmen, the board of
selectmen
makes the recommendations to what moves
into the capital funds.
The board of selectmen sat there and
recommended that $100,000 go into that
AES capital fund before we understood
that the Andover Board of Education was
overbudget by $400 and some odd thousand
underbudget, excuse me, by $400 and
somehat thousand dollars. So I just
sitting there and go, we're doing it
wrong. We're going to we're going to
allow it to be done incorrectly. I I'm
not I'm not in agreement with that. It
needs to be done correctly so that in
the future as this occurs, things get
done in an appropriate manner because
the board of finance really should have
just pushed that back into
should have pushed that back into the
general fund. And on this budget, we
should have put that money in to
it should have been put back into the
capital fund in an appropriate level to
cover the requirements
of the school to do the bathroom. And
then Ann, the question I'd ask you, I'd
go right to you go, are we doing that
this year? Has anyone been in
communication with the town regarding
the the the bathrooms and doing the
bathrooms? And and this is stuff that we
either start working together or we're
going to have other problems. So, right
now, my one issue is that the board of
finance moved $360,000
into a capital fund and they did it on
their vote, which truly does not hold
the authority to actually do that
correctly.
So I say we do it correctly. That's all
I'm saying. So you're saying to
go to a town meeting to change this for
the future. No, to do it correctly, not
to change it. To do it correctly and to
do it correctly in the future. Correct.
But you're not taking away the money
that's in the a capital. No, we're
voting on it to to to say yes. We all
agree that the legislative body of the
town, the town meeting votes to sit
there and approp take the $360,000
and put it into the AES capital fund.
There there doesn't need to be a vote on
this. This doesn't need to be a meeting.
The charter says where the money goes.
Um, it does need to be a meeting, Scott,
because
if let's sit there and say, uh, let's
sit there and say we want to have a a
well, I don't even want to go there.
There has to be a meeting because you
have to have a town meeting to vote yes
on this or in essence, it's been done
incorrectly and we're going to have this
problem year after year after year and
we're gonna Yeah, we can't do it. Would
it have to be a referendum too or just a
town meeting? By that there's no
changing this. The the board of
selectman didn't know that there was
going to be $360,000 extra. So we to put
100 into their capital fund. They
elected not to take it. We we we knew we
we did know. I don't I don't the board
of education the board listen we knew
and I don't even want to go into the
whole thing about knowing we knew that
there was money left over there's no
doubt about it Scott oh we knew there
was money left over never knew how much
money left over never knew how much it
was knew there was money left and that's
why the board of selected did not put
the hundred into this year's budget no
incorrect board of selectmen recommended
to put $100,000 into the board of
finance the Board of Finance took it out
and replaced it with $360,000.
I mean, because the the the board of
finance do that education had that money
to put into the capital fund. Again, the
board of education controls its
expenditures. The board of education did
not spend that money. The technical way
that it should have happened is that
money should have come back to the town
and been put into the general fund at
that point in time. Then the board of
selectmen could have sat there and said
to the board of finance with, you know,
talking to the board of education and
talking to the board of finance said,
"Hey, let's fund the uh capital fund
with this overpayment." And then what we
would have went to the town people with
is, "Hey, listen. We're going to put
$360,000 into the AES capital fund.
We're not going to tax you on it because
we had a we had an underbudget amount
from the prior year. There'll be no no
impact to the taxpayers in the current
tax year. That's what should and you
know why they have that money. It's
because of the grant that they got.
Otherwise, they would not have had that
extra money. It was only because of the
grant that Valerie was able to pull in.
Okay, those are all positive. Change
this. She'll probably stop doing grants.
What does that mean?
Why would she stop doing grants? Tons
and tons of grants to be able to get the
money to have the extra to do the work
on the building because otherwise she
doesn't get it. So, you're telling me
that the superintendent of our schools
is going to stop applying for grants
because the money the money that is
under spent is not going into her into
the AES. If she feels the town votes it
down and says, "No, we're not going to
do that." If we're sending it to a town
meeting, that can happen.
And did Valerie tell you that she was
going to stop getting grants? Well, she
says, you know, what's my incentive to
work on getting all these grants if the
town isn't going to let me put this
extra money into a capital account? We
didn't say that. We said all we wanted
to do is make sure that everybody's on
the same page. It does h happen again
next year, that the money is put in back
into the general fund and then back into
the Let me ask a general Let me ask a
question. Let me ask a question.
If AES is is is under budget by 400,000
this year, are are you expecting and is
the board of education expecting that
that $400,000 be put into the AES
capital fund? Do you have that many
projects that you're expecting to get
accomplished?
That's what you were under budget this
year.
Okay. So listen, I don't even if to me
it doesn't even matter like we can go
round and round go to a town meeting
round and round on this but the issue is
that it should go to a town meeting and
and Carol and Ann if you need time to to
review the documentation I'm okay with
that because I understand that the
opinion came today. So
it should have come to what when our
referendum was we should add that
information then it should have been
voted on then. Yes. Right.
If you need time I I'm okay. I just
would recommend we schedule a meeting a
town meeting for ourselves a board of
selection special meeting next week to
vote on it.
You're on mute Carol if you're reading
something from somebody.
No, I'm I'm sorry. I'm I'm good. Okay.
So, I would say that
the town has done basically the same
thing at the end of the year. Uh we
certainly publicly funded a uh vehicle
for senior transportation from a
completely different line item at the
end of the year because we had the
surplus to do it. um as opposed to
rolling it into the general fund. Um now
that might have been under the half% cap
um which might mean technically the
board of finance could approve that. Um
I don't know. It sounds like if we're
going to go in this direction, then we
really need an ordinance that specifies
exactly how this all goes down. Because
I mean, I I will admit that over the
last six years, I've had a bunch of
questions in my mind about exactly what
the approval process is for capital
expense. Does it go to CIP and then
board of finance and board of
selectment? Does it just go CIP to board
of finance? Does it go CIP board of
selectman board of finance?
So, I mean, I will admit I don't really
and I should understand that procedure.
Um, I did ask years ago the and gave the
board of finance a draft policy of how I
thought it should work, but there was
never any final
policy established on that to my
knowledge. So, you know, maybe this
really does need an ordinance and we
need to do something to clean this up
because I was certainly not under the
impression of what Dennis's legal
opinion was. Um, and that's an error on
my part.
Uh I I agree 100% with you, Eric, in in
that I was speaking to Mark Brinker over
the weekend and he and I are both
honestly are unsure exactly with what
the process should be. I mean, I have in
I have a very common sense approach in
that there's there's
there's assets of the town and there's
capital funds of the town that are
are supposed to be uh administered by
the town administrator and the board of
selectmen. and we're supposed to spend
accordingly uh from those funds to
upkeep the capital of the the town. and
he and Mark and I were having a
conversation as to what is truly the
role because I think we're getting to
the point where we're having um we're
attempting to have different boards take
different roles and it's becoming
confusion uh confused and we need to sit
there and outline it and have it in very
detailed form and say this is your role,
this is our role, this is what a capital
project is. Everybody's got to follow
the purchasing procedure and we really
should go through and do all of that for
the benefit of all future board of
selectments, all future board of
finances and all future board of
educations because it's the only way
that we'll really be able to work
together effectively.
So,
but we're here today and and I'm going
to go to Carol and Ann. We're here
today. We've got to decide if we call a
special meeting and you know what we do.
If we don't call a special meeting, I'm
telling you that I think we're
we we will have we could potentially
have a problem
because to me that would mean a
potential uh audit adjustment and then
you have another problem. So uh I would
recommend that we do it. That's my
opinion. It may not be everybody else's
opinion. Um, and I am telling you, I am
not sitting there saying that I the the
motion that I would make and the town
meeting that I would make is that we
come to vote on the movement of those
funds to the AES capital fund. That's
it. So,
and I just asked Joanne Heert raised her
hand and sent something on the screen.
She's the vice chair of the board of
finance. We there's no policies, Carol.
There's no policies. The The only policy
there is is what the charter has
written. No one formally made a policy.
Period.
Oh, there's a policy that was out there,
Carol, if this is there was one out
there, but it was I don't know. I'm just
asking. I'm just I'm just telling you.
I'll tell you. There was a written
policy that the board of education and
the board of finance jointly got
together and attempted to write so that
they could sit there and and have a have
what I would call control over the
spending of unexpended funds that are in
the AAS capital fund. And to be really
honest, that's not accept that's not
appropriate for me. I'm not I'm not
built for that because there's only one
group in the town and it's the board of
selectmen that sits there and has
capital funds under its under its
purview. That's it. Nobody else has a
capital fund under their purview. Not
that not and or last year we tried
getting together and discussing it three
boards and the board of selectmen
dropped the ball I think because they
didn't just didn't go through with it.
The board of board of selectmen chosen
to vote on that policy. We were not
going to approve that policy.
You would have voted yes an and other
people would have voted no. Said we
didn't have a policy that evening. I
remember him saying that there was no
policy. We didn't need a policy was his
word because what I didn't need a
policy. We have a capital improvement
fund that the board of education is a
member of. Everybody goes to the capital
improvement fund to evaluate the
necessary needs of the community.
Balanced approach to who needs it. Is it
the library? Is it the fire department?
Is it the town? Is it the board of
education? And then you choose how to
spend the money that you have available.
So,
okay. So, what I'm going to recommend is
that we schedule a special meeting for
next week with only one item on the
agenda. And is it to schedule a town
meeting or not to schedule a town
meeting?
Yeah, because I'm willing to give you
the time because I believe that what
we've discussed and what's been out
there is
is and Eric said something that he's not
wrong.
Um,
you know, I know that we we sat there on
a prior on the prior board of of of
selectmen and we had extra money and we
chose to sit there and spend money on a
vehicle for senior transportation.
And what we did was transfer funds to a
a line so that we could do senior
transportation and we had the board of
finance approve it. We didn't do it on
our own. We did it with the board of
finance
and and that is accurate. Eric's saying
that and Eric, what we really need to do
is outline what is the true policy. But
this is not $40,000. This is $360,000.
And and to me, it's something that's
going to happen next year and it's going
to happen in another year and we're
going to all be coming back. And as
opposed to us fighting, what we should
really do is outline what's the proper
procedure, put it in an ordinance, and
be done with this and have no more
confusion as to whose role is what and
what we get done. So, but that's not
where I'm here today for. I'm here today
for to say we really need the town
meeting to approve that transfer so that
we don't have someone go back and say
really that should be in the general
fund.
So,
I would ask Carol and and Ann
specifically if you want time to read
those documents and to to form a better
opinion and get and an to get with your
your your group to sit there and make
sure that the board of education and how
they perceive what the attempt to get
done is. No problem. Let's have a
meeting next week. One item on an
agenda, nothing else. Either we schedule
a town meeting or we don't.
that acceptable to everybody? Can we
schedule it tonight?
Okay. So, what day would you schedule
the special meeting?
Um, let's look at Oh, no. The special
meeting that's a different it can only
we'd have to do it two weeks out. I
mean, no, no, I mean for the board of
selecting for us next week is what
you're saying, right? Yeah. I'm just We
got to look at our calendar, right? to
make sure that we're not on somebody
else's schedule.
[Music]
Well, the 19th, Thursday is Junth, so
that's out. Um, if you want me, how
about how about we do it? How about we
do it? Does anybody have a problem doing
it Friday, 7 o'clock, 10-minute meeting?
It gives you four days to sit there and
go through this. This Friday, Jane 13.
Okay. Does Does Jeff, do you have a
problem with that?
Yeah, I have a conflict. So
there is nothing there. Listen, there's
nothing on Thursday the 12th.
Anybody conflict?
Um, we have two days, three days to sit
there and get it done. I don't have a
conflict
if it's seven or later. Yep. 7 o'clock.
We we said we made an an agreement that
we wouldn't have any meetings before 7.
Every once in a while we break our own
bow, but 7 o'clock Thursday the 12th.
Well, we have DTC meeting that night,
but would this meeting be very short
then? Very short.
I would hope. And I'm hoping all our
meetings are really short. This one is
going longer than I would expected.
I mean, listen, 7 to 7:15, that would be
the hope. Everybody would have their
questions. Everybody knows how they're
going to vote. You're going to sit there
and we're going to do it and move on. I
mean, I'd vote tonight, but I understand
that everybody wants to read that and
and feel
feel that they understand what the town
attorney wrote and that they get input
from all the people that they want to
get input from. Well, I'm glad you're
having it this week because I'll be away
next week and so I'll be there to answer
questions. I'm I'm looking forward to
it. I always like to get feedback on
what I do. All right. So, does anybody
So, can we schedule it for the 12th? Is
that okay? So, I'll make a motion that
we schedule a special meeting for June
12th to uh discuss the scheduling of a
special town meeting for the AES capital
fund.
Second. Second, Carol Lee. All those in
favor? I I I 5 nothing. Okay, let's move
on to uh 9B food truck discussion. We
had um a resident give us some
information related to the food truck.
Eric, before we get started, your input
on this.
Uh so we have a resident that is looking
at the possibility of
uh finding some locations in town where
they would be allowed to put a food
truck. They made the initial suggestion
and asked whether they would be allowed
to park the food truck down near the
recreational fields during games. I said
that's a board of selectmen issue, but
as long as they're insured, I don't have
a problem with that. Personally, I think
that's a reasonable request. I also said
that the town has one other property
where we've specifically allowed a food
truck to be parked before. That is the
old small commuter lot next to over and
over. Um, and the third location that
maybe should be considered is parking it
along the rail trail on one of the town
properties. If you remember when we
purchased the property from the merit
family, we did that in such a way that
we purchased some of the parcels with
open space funds and the rest were
donated so that those ones that were
donated were available for commercial
use. So there is an existing curb cut on
Route Six. So, you could potentially
allow the use of a food truck near the
rail trail right by the the underpass
under Route Six. Those were the three I
thought off the top of my head. Um, but
we didn't really have any sort of food
truck form. Um, so I nicked the one from
the Endover's farmers market, changed it
around a little bit and presented that
to you. Also, it would need to go to
legal review if this is something you
wanted to consider. But I at least
wanted to put enough information before
you so that you could have a discussion
and the uh person that was trying to do
it
uh was on.
I don't see them on listed uh anymore,
unfortunately. That's that's Eric. I I
think it's something that uh I would
recommend that we evaluate. I also know
that they said that they would
potentially be willing to compensate the
town. I think you should negotiate all
of those factors and everything else and
bring it back to the board at a future
meeting. I think should charge a fee for
that if they're using because when uh
Linda and Dave were using the commuter
lot that overandover uses, there was a
rental fee that we charged for that.
Okay. Yeah. And I did look for that
information, but that's at least from
what I can find that that predates our
shared server. So, I don't have that
information on what fees. I'm happy to
entertain whatever fees the board feels
are appropriate.
Okay. Can we look in Can you look into
other towns and what they potentially
would do? Um, but yes, it's something we
should entertain and we should sit there
and see if it's uh it's viable. I mean,
I'd also like to understand that Eastern
Health
doesn't cause any problems or that it
would be appropriate for their their
needs. I know she sat there and said she
was going to get all the licensing and
all the requirements and get all that
done, but let's just make sure that it's
not something that we become it becomes
problematic for us, right? we would
require Eastern Highlands Health
District to uh give a temporary food
service permit um and that they be
insured. But today there's now a a law
that says uh health districts have to
offer reciprocity for food trucks. So
instead of uh getting your food truck
approved in each individual health
district throughout the state, I think
you can get it done in one and ask for
rep recip reciprocity in the other. Um
but food trucks are not an issue with
Eastern Islands Health District. I know
that I sit on the board, so I don't see
that being an objection. All right. So,
let's let's have this on the agenda for
next month and sit there and see if we
can get that negotiated and laid out so
that the individual can buy their truck.
Okay. Um there was a a significant
amount of information on the solid waste
discussion, the SF SS SMMR2.
Um Eric, what's the what is the
specifics that you want us to address
related to that? Is do we
transfer station or not.
The the real question you have to ask is
would you as a board
continue consider going to a pay as you
throw mechanism for the transfer station
with all the complications that entails
or keep the basic form that we're
running the transportation station at
now or transfer station, which is just
an annual flat $50 fee um to anybody
that wants to use it and not limit limit
the types of waste, but not the
quantities of waste because the state
has a series of grant programs and that
we could tap into, but they all require
as a core of doing it that you adopt the
pay as you throw model. Um, I honestly
don't think that's really practical for
the town. I would like to consider some
of the other parts of the grant program,
but you can't do one without the other.
So, my question for you is, is that
something you would consider and be
willing to take the public feedback
um, which will probably not be happy
with that? um and the logistical issues
of figuring out how to adopt a pay as
you throw model for the transfer
station.
I'm just sitting there telling you we we
are not in a position to logistically
accomplish that. Forget all of the other
things that would go on with it. Like I
mean we don't even have internet at the
transfer station. So,
I mean, if you were even thinking about
doing it, you'd have to sit there and
outline how you would want to execute
it, and then we'd have to get public
feedback to sit there and say, would you
even consider doing it without killing
us,
right? Right. Okay. So,
I don't really feel like getting beat up
any more than I need to. I know Carol
doesn't. Right, Carol? No. And I just
think we would have to res redesign the
transfer station because
the way the hut is where the guys are,
you know, if you look at Colombia, it's
right there when you pull in and they
look at what you have. So I just think
that the sticker fee is enough. If we
have to go up a little bit, that's one
thing, but I think sticker fee is
enough. So that have to be like bags,
certain bags that you use or how would
that even be? There are different ways
of doing that. The one way is
um you just say, okay, your annual fee
is $50. For that, you get the equivalent
of two household garbage bags. Um so you
get 100 special garbage bags every year.
Um, and when you've exceeded that limit,
then you have to pay. You have to buy
the bags from somewhere. Pick a retailer
in town. Make them buy it from over and
over or be Dollar General or or some
other town residence. So, that's one
possibility. Um, the second possibility
is some sort of scale mechanism, but
that's harder to implement in the town
of Andover. So,
you know, I I'm I like the concept, but
I struggle to see how we can practically
do that in the town of Andover. The only
reason why I even considered and was
willing to sit through all the uh
PowerPoint presentations
um you know and talk to the people that
are running this program is I think the
food scrap diversion
could be viable at some point and might
be worthwhile because
mostly
uh you know statewide they figure
somewhere about 22% of everything that
gets thrown out in solid waste. So, not
bulky waste, but just regular household
garbage is food scraps. And if you can
take that out of the waist stream
somehow, that means you're taking an
awful lot less to the incinerator and
you're taking a lot less to the the
landfill. So, I can see some value in
it. I just in my head I don't understand
how this project could work in handover.
But the way this program is if we signed
up for it, the first six months is just
them figuring out whether this could
even be implemented in Andover. But I
also don't want to make them do that
unless we're serious about thinking
about doing it.
That's probably a long-winded way to say
I'm not really in favor of this. Well,
the only way we'd ever I mean the only
way I think we would consider it is if
it is financially appropriate for the
town of Andover and we can execute it
logistically. So, you'd have to you'd
have to give us those two things like
here's what the grant funding would do
for us because
listen, what does what does the sticker
fee pay for our transfer station cost?
30%
No, around 20% today. So it's less. So
20%. So the sticker fee is 20% of the
total cost of operating the transfer
station. Yeah. 20 to 25%. Okay. Yep. So
if you came back to the board and sat
there and said the grants and how we
would run this program would fund 60% of
the cost of the transfer station, then
we may have an appetite to sit there and
pursue it because there's some cost
savings to the town. Um but
well it wouldn't be cost savings to the
town. We would just say we are putting
on more of the cost of the transfer
station on the people who use the
transfer station the most. That's what
this would end up doing in the long
term. Correct. But I'm assuming that
some of the grant funding would also
supplement the dollars
that we currently deal with. So it has
to be return on investment. We have to
understand it. And it's a little bit
more than just reading their document to
sit there and see what would be up.
Eric, we'd have to come up with a plan
to say, okay, the 100 bags cost $50 and
then everything above and beyond the 50
bags is X and this is how you fund it.
And do we get any grant funding on top
of that? And so that there would be
savings if the program generated more
than 20% of the the over like could
could uh could supplement what we're
currently getting from the transfer
sticker fees. But honestly
for this coming year, it's just the
transfer sticker fee as far as I'm
concerned because I think we'd kill
ourselves if we tried to implement it.
it would be for the following year if we
could get it done. So,
anybody else have any issues related to
that? I think it's a great idea. I just
think it'd be really hard to implement
and we'd have to get an infrastructure
that could handle it.
So, anybody else with any other
questions for that item?
Okay. 9E, Longill uh bridge update and
the Lake Road. we talked about these but
yeah
I guess that uh you have everything um
other than uh I will send out the 70%
design
uh submission meeting there will be at
the end of June at some point there or
beginning of j July there will be what's
called a plans in hand meeting that is
they've sent out to all the relevant uh
state agencies as well as the utility
companies the draft plans including
utility relocation, what the bridge is
going to look like. Um, and there will
be an on-site meeting that you are all
uh more than welcome to attend um to
discuss any of the issues that any of
the agencies that have regulatory
authority over this and there are many
um have with it prior to getting to the
90% plan stage. But the intention uh at
this point is somewhere about the middle
of August to have the final uh design uh
draft meeting um with the
uh Connecticut DOT um bid opening or
advertising for both the construction
inspection and the construction firm to
take place somewhere in early September,
open bid bid openings in October with a
plan of having contract in in place for
both uh construction inspection as well
as the contracting firm by the middle of
December um scheduled for a April one
start date on the bridge.
Okay, anybody questions related to the
bridges?
Okay, we had 9F uh Trinity Solar um
um permit application.
Correct. I know. I'll make a motion that
we approve.
And what was the individual's name that
was on that permit, Eric?
I don't know, but I can go look it up.
Aiden Ford. Aiden Ford. All
right. So, I make a motion that we
cancel all Trinity Solar sales permit
applications that currently exist and
approve the Trinity Solar Sales permit
uh specifically related to Aiden Ford.
I'll second.
Any discussion on this item?
All those in favor? I I I
Okay. Uh we're on to item 10, approval
of the meeting minutes from five the
regular meeting from 512 2022.
I would like to amend the minutes to
note that the board of selectmen voted
unanimously
to have the town clerk on the ballot in
November.
I'll second that because I know that we
did.
Thank you.
All right. All those uh in favor of
approving the minutes with the above men
or the the adjustment to the vote for
the town clerk on the ballot.
I
I I have nothing. Okay. Uh treasures
report. It starts on page 67 of our
packet. Anybody have any specific
questions related to the treasur's
report?
Eric, the one thing is, and I didn't see
it in here, but do you have a town a
road uh balance update for us?
Uh, I can provide you one. The one I
have is probably a couple months old.
Okay. If you can do that because it's
it's 11 C. I'd like to know what's left
in that account. We used to have an
update every month with that.
Okay. Anybody have any questions related
to um the town budget? And and Eric, we
may as well talk about it. Um where do
you think we're going to be related to
the end of the year?
uh we're going to be under spent to some
extent on the town budget and we will be
slightly over in total collections. So I
know we'll be in the black. I just I
don't want to give you an estimate for
how far in the black. Um the one thing I
was holding out and worried on was the
resident trooper the bill. We did get
the bill for that already. it is 6 or
7,000 less than we budgeted. So, we're
in good shape there. Um, so I don't see
any major problems in the budget
overall.
So, the resident state trooper came in
at $32,000 for the year. That's good.
Around 33,000.
Yeah. 33.
Okay. And so,
uh, if you can keep the residents
informed as to where we end up related
to
our spending in next month, let's have a
a better, uh, understanding of where
we're going to end up being. But
you said our revenue collection is
better. Is that from tax collections or
is that from state funding? Where where
are you at with that one? Just a way.
Um, so overall tax collection, we've
gotten all the state money we expected.
Um, we've done better than we've done in
years past with collections
uh from the collection of back taxes
owed by Kate. Um, we've done better than
we've done in the past. So, we're up a
little bit on that overall where we seem
to be right where we should be. Okay.
Uh, anyone else have any other questions
related to the treasurer's report?
Carol's got her hand up. No. Oh, I
accidentally did it. I don't even know
why I have that. I'm sorry. Oh, okay.
Okay.
Um,
all right. We'll move on to uh item 12,
the tax collector's report.
So,
she's 99% collected on real estate, 98%
on personal property, 95% on motor
vehicles, and 91% on the supplemental, I
believe.
So, there's still a total due of
$161,000
for the current year. That not what's
not due for the prior years.
But,
but if you remember the way we
budget this, which admittedly is a
little screwy, but it works out most
years, is that we assume we're going to
collect 100% of the taxes across the
board in the correct year, but we don't
figure on any uh, you know, motor
vehicle supplemental
Because usually the amount we collect in
the motor vehicle supplemental works out
to about the same amount as
what we don't collect in taxes.
The 2023
uncollected balance is is much higher
than this year. So So Kate obviously did
a good job collecting this year.
So, she's down $70,000
from the prior year,
which means she did a poor job in 2023
and a much better job in 2024.
She's getting better. Okay. Learning the
job. All right. Anybody else have any
other questions for the tax collector
report? No. Okay.
Um there is a an update on the
um
tax
sale and the demands on that. Um
when is that all supposed to be
finalized, Eric? And when is there a
date set for the potential tax sale?
Uh,
I think it's sometime in July, but I I
don't have the the date. Okay. Um
Okay. Yeah, I know the the leans have
all been bleached. We've gotten a bunch
of them to pay off. Um, my understanding
is that the Barnett property has just
come off the list. uh that Adam Cohen
had, which is which is I'm assuming
means he got paid for that. Um and we're
just because that property did sell. Um
so I'm assuming he's already gotten paid
for that and he just hasn't reimbursed
the town yet. So we're down to really,
you know, like three big properties in
the the uh tax sale. And my
understanding also is that the Vitch
family farm has sold that property or is
it it's at least under contract. So
there's an understanding that we should
get that one too. So there's only going
to be a couple left in the tax sale by
the time it gets to that point. Okay.
Good news. All right. Please make sure
that uh at at the next meeting you give
us the date of the sale so that we can
at least announce it to the residents at
least at our meeting.
Uh page 76 there's a tax refund for the
uh month of $25549
for Toyota lease trust uh
related to a certificate of correction.
So,
I'll make a motion that we approve the
tax refund in the total uh in the total
of $25549
to the Toyota lease trust.
Second.
Carol seconded. All those in favor? I I
I 5 nothing.
Okay. And can I just tell you the tax
sale is July 16th at 100 p.m. July 16th,
1 p.m. Thank you.
Okay.
Um there are various departmental
reports that were provided to us. Um
anybody have any questions related to
any of them? There was one submitted by
Haley Proto from the community center.
There was one provided by the assessor's
office,
state police,
building department, public works.
So if you have questions for Haley, she
is still on this meeting, so I'm sure
she would be happy to answer them.
Okay. Anybody have any questions?
Okay.
So, let's move on to
item 14, a correspondence. The
correspondence and the CROG summary.
Eric,
uh, let me get down to that. So, I put
Krog's summary of what House Bill 52
would do. Um, and so you could kind of
understand the effects on the town of
Andover. As I said before, it does look
like the governor is pulling back from
signing it in existing form. Um, but I
don't know whether they will or they
won't. Obviously, it's getting lobbyed
pretty hard from both sides.
Um, it does make a series of changes
that
would be interesting for the town of
Andover. The first thing it does is it
allows mobile homes in every zone, every
residential zone in the town of Andover.
Um, so Jeff, if you wanted to tear your
home down and put a single wide uh on
the foundation instead, you'd be allowed
to do it once this regulation puts in.
um unlikely anybody would do it given
the cost of land but not uh impossible
to think of. The other thing it does is
it allows middle housing um on anything
that is currently zoned commercial or
industrial. Middle housing is designed
as up to a nine apartment uh apartment
unit um on a piece of property. And as
you know, since we zone down to a half
acre in the commercial and industrial
zone, that would be a pretty intense use
on a piece of property. Um, it also
allows them to build it without any
parking at all, which is uh a little
scary. It's not too likely that in
Andover somebody would try to build an
apartment complex and not have any
parking, but legally the zoning
commission would not be able to in, you
know, do any parking rags. Um,
the other thing that's going to happen
is the town is going to have to uh draft
a priority affordable housing plan. um
you know which is going to take some
time and may extend
um the existing planet conservation and
development effort out a little bit
because it's it's part of it will be
part of the POC
um you know and it's it's it's going to
take quite a bit of planning effort to
uh
to do this number one and we're also
going to have to have uh some fairly
good legal review of our zoning
regulations because there are a lot of
changes and we need we would then need
to make our town zoning rules comply
with state law. So something that
happens every year just usually not as
drastic as this. Um, the second thing is
I put in the packet uh several months
ago I asked you for permission to reply
to the state that we'd be happy to have
them replace all our stop signs with new
stop signs. This is the project
authorization letter that has to be
signed by the first selectman. But since
you all uh as a board are the local
traffic authority collectively, I I
wanted to put it in the packet so that
you knew um the board already kind of
said go ahead with this, but now Jeff
technically needs to sign it to get the
project rolling. So that's the second
piece of correspondence that's in there.
Yeah. Anybody have any other questions
for Eric?
Okay, we'll move on to public speak.
Diane Grer.
Yep, here I am. Thank you. Um, another
another good meeting. You have uh lot
lots of information there. So, uh, thank
you. Um, my question is, um, did for the
Andover's finest, did somebody, I assume
you did, keep the old list from a couple
years ago of all the ones that were
nominated, or are we going to have to
start from scratch and renominate
people?
Only three people. No, no, no. Those are
the three people that we selected. There
were other people nominated. We'll make
sure that we get that information and we
we should post that or I don't want to
post it but we'll make sure we have it
available. Okay. I I do have that list
if uh you don't have it. Okay. So, just
so you know that. Um and that's it.
Again, good meeting guys. Thank you very
much for all you do. Right. Tess grass.
I'm all set. Thank you, Jeff. Jay
Tuttle.
All set. Jeff, thanks. Haley Pto,
thank you. I'm good over here. Thank
you. Marcy Miner.
Hi.
There's there's so many things that I
have questions about. Um,
one is, uh, that I was nominated for the
hiring committee, but no one else was.
So, I'm a little confused
about that. Maybe if there's somebody
from the com uh selectman's person's
group that I could communicate with. I
don't know who that would be, but uh we
could probably have a conversation about
that later. Sure. You can talk to Carol,
but there's five members of four members
of the committee right now. Marcy,
myself, Carol Lee, uh Amory Dagel, and
yourself. Okay. All right. Awesome. Um,
the other thing was the it's really sad
that we have uh two good people that are
leaving just this month and um I think
that I wonder if we should consider uh
some kind of
uh resource person or something in the
town. I know that's a probably a whole
subject, but uh I think it's something
we should probably think about. Um
something that I don't think we have in
the town and we probably should consider
something like that. So anyway, that's
it. And thank you so much. You guys uh
really uh have a lot to work on and have
done in this meeting alone. So thank you
Valerie Bruno.
Hi. Thank you. Um so first of all, I do
want to clear up um you know what what
Ann Cray had said about the grants. Um,
yes, I have publicly said at the board
of finance meeting when we were
originally speaking about the agreement
between the board and finance and the
board of ed that that certainly the
establishment of that account certainly
would allow us to moving forward to um
see that as an incentive not to buy
things at the end of the year that the
board of education had done in the past.
So, I certainly would still pursue
grants. I don't want anyone to think
that I wouldn't. Um, with that said, I'm
a little um I don't know. I don't know
what the right word is here. Uh, I guess
I feel as though things are, you know,
do as we say, not as we do. Um, you
know, Eric did mention that we do have
past protocol that's been done on the
town side where these things have
absolutely not been adhered to. So, I
understand the idea of maybe moving
forward, making sure that things are
done a little bit differently. Um, I
don't agree they've been done against
the charter, but I agree that moving
forward per perhaps there needs to be a
conversation. Um, I'm a little suspect
about the rushing of this now, wanting a
town meeting to take place after the
last day of school when perhaps we'd
have less people there to um appear and
and to listen. I also have um one more
thing and that is that um the budget
season just ended and we have a 2526
budget established for next year. The
information that was given to the town's
people was dependent upon and and they
were told this is what the school has
available to it. This is its 2%
non-lapsing account. This is the capital
funding and decisions were made and
votes were issued at the first
referendum and at the second referendum
to establish a 2526 budget for the
school based on those numbers. And I I
do believe that the result of that um
vote would have been very different if
in fact this had been brought up prior
to so I do think that there would have
to be a legal review about the um
accuracy of the budget moving forward if
this were to change because this is what
the people were told. This is what they
were presented at referendum as the
facts behind what the school has
available to it moving forward. And
again, um, the school board does have a
different attorney. The school board has
Shipment and Goodwin, and I believe that
we should be allowed to, um, have the
opinion of the town's attorney, um,
rebutted by the opinion of the board of
education's attorney. Uh, prior to any
of this, we were not in receipt of any
of this information, and I don't believe
that the whole board of finance was
either. So, you know, I understand
moving forward, but I don't understand
the sense of urgency in wanting this
addressed right now after the audit is
officially been filed after the budget
for next year has been established. I do
believe that there's merit to saying
because the town has also done things um
that you believe were done in the wrong
way like the senior center not going to
a town vote either that maybe we should
say it's June of 2025 right now and
moving forward we'd like to talk about
the future rather than the past as it
pertains solely to the school. Thank
you.
Uh Kimberly Passan.
Uh nothing right now. Thank you. Uh
Leanne Hutchinson.
Nothing. Thank you. Joanne Heert.
Yes. I'd like to um just say a couple
comments. Um, I guess I'll I'll follow
with what happened tonight with um, you
know, what the superintendent was just
talking about because you made a lot of
references and a lot was brought up
about the board of finance or these
things happening or we don't want this
to happen again. First of all, we want
to make sure or at least I do because I
will always publicly speak unlike people
that like to run around behind closed
doors and maybe give some comments. But
when I'm asked, you're going to hear it
from me. And and I don't mind commenting
public. And I'm always going to be
professional. I'm always going to treat
people with respect that maybe don't
show me the same class and respect. Um,
so my comment there was, we want things
to go the right way. You didn't
acknowledge that there was a whole year
of two people from each of the boards
trying to come up with a three board
agreement, you know, drafting it and
having things go back and forth because
as the superintendent had mentioned in
the past, it did seem like there is a
spending frenzy going on that all
schools do. I work in a school. It's
what you want to do. The town has
allotted you money. you want to spend it
in the most correct way. So I think the
thought at that time was because there
were so many upcoming projects and I
wasn't at the genesis of any of this. I
just have a really good memory. I go to
a lot of meetings. I speak the truth. I
speak every version and I'm going to
report the facts, not just what I want
out there. So there was a committee put
together of Shannon Lden and Rob England
who had spent a lot of time trying to
craft an agreement and when it had
gotten some board approval it went to
the board of selectmen you know for some
thoughts on it and I'm not going to
speak for you Mr. Maguire but I'm pretty
sure you were the one that didn't want
to have any part of it. So again,
treating you with respect. You kind of
said you didn't, you know, I'd have to
look back. I don't want to quote
anybody, but there was some kind of
agreement trying to be made so that
maybe um, you know, what is a capital
expenditure? What is this, what is that?
So there was a lot of time and effort
put into it. This wasn't just a let's,
you know, transfer this over. It was a
really concerted effort to get all three
boards to work together and then to you
know first establish the capital fund
for AES and then fund it appropriately.
So there were two different things I
think there was money left from one
audit or one one year where money was
transferred in. I don't I haven't had
the time in my personal and professional
life to go through this audit but you
bet I will before we meet on it. Um, I
was on the meeting tonight. I had my
hand politely raised multiple times. You
clearly weren't going to call on me to
get any facts from me because you did
not want that to happen. And that's
okay. I can accept that. But I was there
to just give you a couple things um, you
know, that you were saying to kind of
maybe correct the the way it was going.
However it goes, we want the town to
spend the money they want. I'm the one
always making suggestions for budget
cuts. I'm the one that will speak up in
public and put my face behind it whether
I'm agreed with or not. So, there's no
problem going to however we want to do
this. But we were trying to get all of
the three boards together. Um, you know,
and that's where this came from. The
other thing I do want to address tonight
that I get the feeling that when I made
my public comment about Jay Tuttle
leaving earlier, it was more of a
surprise,
you know, and I was stating from going
to meetings and listening to him that I
was just surprised that he resigned
because it seemed like he wanted to stay
with the town. Um, you know, you right
away when I was done and Jay, you went
right to Jay right away and then you
said, "Well, good thing you didn't hear
that." I think if people listened to my
comments, they were respectful. I was
surprised that he was leaving. But now
that Jay had a moment to speak for
himself, I applaud him. No one wants
stress. No one when everybody gets
towards retirement age, we all want
things to calm down for ourselves. we
all want to have a simpler life or
stressfree or whatever. So, he was able
to explain why he's leaving. So, I'm
glad I heard that. So, I don't want it
said anywhere that I said anything
negative about him. Everyone has praised
the work he does. We're glad to have had
him, but if he needs to leave because
this job is too stressful, that's the
time to leave. So, I just wanted to say
that because I did not appreciate kind
of the connotation that I might have
said a negative comment. Thank you,
Shannon Louden.
Good evening. Um, I think there are two
major problems with now trying to
proceed with a town meeting regarding
the board of ed being allowed to
transfer money into the AES capital
fund.
First of all, contrary to a number of
statements tonight, there is a joint
policy that was enacted by both the
board of finance and the board of
education earlier this year. The board
of selectman chose not to be a part of
it and it is in the nature of the board
of educations being allowed to transfer
unexpended funds into our non-lapsing
account. I haven't seen Dennis's
opinion. I'll look forward to seeing
that. But if there's a statement that
the board of ed is not allowed to
transfer money into its own capital fund
that was created by the board of
selectmen and the board of finance for
the purpose of allowing us to save money
towards future capital expenditures. I'm
incredulous as to what the purpose was.
Secondly, as was stated by Valerie very
eloquently earlier, um I'll just get
down to it and say we've just the town
has just approved a budget that was
based on understandings of funds that
would be available to be used by the
board of education for capital
expenditures.
And if the board of ed had known that
these funds would not be available, our
proposed budget would have been
increased by the $400,000.
I think you're going to have a legal
issue if there is a town meeting that
now disapproves of the money on which
budgets were now put forward to the town
and passed by referendum and I don't
think that's something that's in the
town's interest. Thanks.
Did I miss anyone?
I just have a question. I didn't know
where to ask this. Sure. Can we please
get our agendas and packets a week
before rather than
on Thursday? Um, a lot of times they're
closer to the end of the day.
It's It's not really fair that we don't
have time to research things and things
get pushed on to another meeting or
forgotten about because we have
questions. And some of these questions,
if we had this ahead of time, probably
could have been answered and,
you know, things resolved without being
pushed on to our next meeting. So, I'm
just asking that we get the agendas a
week before. I'd be happy to help with
the agendas, help with the packets. I
just think that it's not fair that we're
asked to vote on things when
we don't have the information and this
happens quite a bit.
That's all. Okay.
Can I put one thing in there? I mean, we
we've this has been debated a bunch of
times and
I do understand the point. The problem
is always if you back the agenda up one
full meat week, 25% of the information
that comes in that month that you really
need to act on, you don't have. So what
was happening in the past was we were
putting out the the packet earlier and
then I was giving core dumps every two
days of more stuff and I got kind of
reamemed at for the board for doing that
for presenting stuff after the packet
went out. So, if you want to go to two
meetings a month, so you shorten up the
time you would have to wait um for
everything that missed that one week
window, that's okay. But if you're going
to hold it a month apart for meetings,
you really need that full month of
information
because if not, then everything that
comes in that that right that week
before the meeting, you're waiting five
weeks for a decision on. And that's the
difficult part. And Carol, maybe we do
have add and delete agenda items. And as
long as it's not something
um major,
we could add that. And you can always
change the agenda right up to Thursday
at 300 p.m. and add something new. But
some of these things
we could have already done the research
and
you know come to a decision if we can
come to some resolution of of working
back and forth with the agenda in
advance so that the packet can be
created. I think that might make more
sense. So we email back and forth an
agenda item so everybody can see it and
if you have questions you can ask the
questions for the individuals that want
to put that on there. Right. And if we
have an item we need to add, we can talk
between the five of us back and forth to
get these agenda items added. No
problem. We can do that. Okay. Thank
you. I feel like if there's 75% of the
packet is ready a week ahead, send that
out and then we can look at all that
stuff. And if so if there's another 25%
that has to be sent out on the Friday
Thursday afternoon before maybe uh do
that but at least we have less at the
last minute. It would really be helpful.
Okay. Anything else? Uh any did I miss
anyone in public speak? Dennis O'Brien,
I know you're there. Do you want to say
anything?
Okay, good. Can I just interject one
thing? Um
to Shannon Lden's point, um Mark Brinker
when he gave the budget
uh meeting and discussed town capital,
one of the slides clearly stated that
they funded $361,000
into the AES capital from prior budget
surplus. So, I think he certainly did
announce at the public public meeting
that the board of finance had done that.
Not saying it was correct or the
procedure was correct or anything, but
the public was informed that they did
that at the budget meeting.
Okay. Um, anything else? Can I just ask
and was that dollar amount shown on that
budget line, Eric? It wasn't on a budget
line. No, no, but was it shown does
is the AES Capital fund or what what is
it? What is the title of that fund? AES
Capital. Eric, why don't you just get us
the the the PowerPoint that was
presented and send it out to all the
members? Sure. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
Yeah. Yeah. All right. Um
I'll make a motion to adjurnn. Second.
All those in favor? I Five nothing.
All right. Thank you. Good night.